President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday pleaded with South Africans to allow a panel  led by justice Dikgang Moseneke to investigate whether it will be suitable to hold  free and fair elections during the Covid-19 pandemic. Local government elections are scheduled to take place on October 27, though Ramaphosa said  the date, which he announced in April, “does not constitute a proclamation” under law. “The proclamation will be issued by the minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta),” he said. The president said  for the first time since its establishment, the Electoral Commission  (IEC) is faced with the prospect of conducting  elections during a pandemic. Concerns have been expressed by some political parties represented on the party liaison committee that the elections may not be free and fair given the impact of the  pandemic and  measures taken to curb the  spread of the  coronavirus. Cognisant of its obligation to ensure  the elections are free and fair, the IEC has commissioned Moseneke to lead the inquiry into ensuring free and fair local government elections during Covid-19. The inquiry is expected to do three things:  inquire into the conditions for free and fair elections;  come up with findings following the inquiry; and  issue a report in which recommendations are set out concerning the likelihood  the IEC would be able to ensure  the forthcoming  elections will be free and fair. It has also been asked to indicate additional measures  the IEC may be required to implement  to realise free and fair elections within the context of the  pandemic. Any possible postponement of elections is a matter on which the IEC will have to make a determination in terms of the provisions of the Constitution and applicable legal prescripts. As there is no determination of a postponement at this stage, no other date has been considered  for the elections other than  October 27 . Ramaphosa said to pre-empt  Moseneke’s response  will be  making a mistake. “Let us allow the process  he has been tasked to lead to take place. What in my view is most pleasing is that many of the things  we do have checks and balances so  if we ever make a mistake on anything, we are able to be checked so  we can create the balance.” Ramaphosa said the inquiry process would check whether the decision the government took to hold local government elections in October was correct. “They will approach their work most scientifically and work with experts who will give sound advice.” Answering  whether the panel was established to postpone the elections, Ramaphosa said  government was not creating a sense of panic so  the elections can be moved to a later stage. “As government I made an announcement that the elections should go ahead and even set a date in October, a date which will be duly proclaimed by the Cogta minister. I need to be told in what way we are therefore creating  panic. “If anything we are dealing with the matter as carefully as we can because we continue to manage the Covid-19 pandemic and  continue to watch  infections. When we get concerned about the rising number of infections, we inform the nation and in that regard we have tended to be as transparent as  we can.” Ramaphosa said the IEC told  government  it needed a legal framework  to comply with the constitutional prescripts to declare  the elections would go ahead. “Out of great caution, the IEC  said we would like to establish an inquiry  led by a highly reputable individual and the body politic of our country to establish  the elections  can be  considered  free and fair.” “ I don’t know how we can bring the judge into this and ask if he aware of the constitutional prescripts and claim he could be creating a constitutional crisis. I am not sure where that comes from and where it belongs. “Let us trust the process. Let us trust the prescripts of our constitution. If nothing else, the constitution is a shock-absorber that helps to balance whatever turbulence  there may be. Let us trust the IEC to  manage this process properly without any undue interference. Let us continue to  trust  Moseneke. He has been able to do good on a number of occasions, handling tricky issues that affect our country. He will continue to do so. “Let us leave those institutions that have served us in the past.” On the measures  put in place  to curb violent protests, Rampahosa said he was confident in the people of South Africa. He said when it comes to voting, they have always been responsible. “I have no doubt  our people will not do anything to disrupt the execution of this important right. Our people will always act correctly when it comes to this issue.” He said South Africans have been affected by service delivery lapses, and  will seek to express themselves. “Our people  must express themselves in whatever way  they want but they do not have the right to embark on violence, to restrict the rights of other people, or damage  public property Nobody has a right to act in a way that restricts the rights of others.” Ramphosa said South Africana were inherently peaceful people. “I would insist  they should not express their anger in a violent manner.” TimesLIVE