Cleric jailed for four years over spread of false Covid-19 information in Indonesia An Indonesian court jailed hardline Islamic cleric Rizieq Shihab on Thursday for four years for spreading false information in a video saying he was healthy despite having tested positive for Covid-19. The verdict comes after an eight-month jail term handed last month to Rizieq, the spiritual leader of the outlawed Islamic Defender's Front (FPI), for breaching coronavirus curbs over several mass events, including his daughter's wedding, which was attended by thousands. Prosecutors had called for a six-year sentence in the latest case after Rizieq was charged over the video, posted on the YouTube channel of the hospital where he was being treated for the coronavirus. SGB teachers 'turned away' at Durban vaccine site Teachers who arrived at Pinetown Civic Centre, outside Durban, for their Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday claim they were turned away because they did not have “Persal” — Personnel and Salary System — numbers. This is because they are employed by school governing bodies, not the provincial department of education, and so they don’t receive a government payslip. Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu, with health MEC Nomagugu Simelane, led the vaccination drive launch for teachers in the province on Wednesday. 750,000-jab target for vaccination site at Cape Town convention centre The mass Covid-19 vaccination site at Cape Town International Convention Centre will administer 750,000 jabs over six months. This was announced on Thursday by the three partners who will run the site: the Western Cape government, the City of Cape Town and Discovery Health. The site's 50 vaccination stations will open early in July and operate until December under the initial contracts. “By collaborating in this way, the CTICC will be one of the largest and most sophisticated vaccination sites in the country, leveraging the resources and capacity of both the public and private sector and thereby accelerating access to vaccination for greater numbers of residents,” said a joint statement. Britain wants to allow people to travel again Britain wants to return to a position that allows people to travel abroad again for a foreign holiday but new variants of the novel coronavirus are complicating the easing, Environment Secretary George Eustice said on Thursday. Asked if Brits would be able to enjoy a foreign holiday on Spanish islands this year amid speculation that restrictions on travel to Ibiza and Mallorca could be eased, Eustice said: "Well, personally I want us to get back to a position where we can support those who want to travel to do so, nobody likes the draconian restrictions we've had to put in place over this last year." -REUTERS More than 48,000 teachers and school staff vaccinated on first day of rollout programme More than 48,000 teachers and school staff were inoculated on the first day of the vaccination rollout programme aimed at staff in the basic education sector, with KwaZulu-Natal recording the highest number of jabs administered. Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said in some provinces, educators had rushed to the vaccination sites because of misinformation. “A WhatsApp message was circulated in some provinces claiming that the Department of Health was going to run out of vaccines. This led to a rush on some vaccine sites, particularly in the Eastern Cape, North West and Free State provinces,” Mhlanga said. 'There was this relaxed attitude': MAC advisers say government did not listen to third wave warning The government was repeatedly warned about the impending third Covid-19 wave and told to set up field hospitals over fears that health facilities would quickly become overwhelmed — but they simply didn’t listen. This is the shocking revelation by two health experts, speaking to eNCA on Wednesday night. Prof Rudo Mathivha, director of critical care medicine at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, and Prof Kholeka Mlisana, co-chair of the ministerial advisory committee (MAC) on Covid-19, were scathing of health authorities’ failure to listen to the warnings. As a result, they said, hospitals were full and people were dying. Brazilian Senate to grill Google, Facebook, Twitter in Covid-19 probe A Brazilian Senate committee on Wednesday formally approved a request to call representatives of Alphabet Inc's Google, Facebook and Twitter to testify in an ongoing probe into the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Senators want to look into what role the companies had in helping to spread potentially dangerous misinformation during the pandemic. Brazil sets new single-day record with over 115,000 new Covid-19 cases Brazil registered a single-day record of 115,228 new confirmed coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday, along with 2,392 deaths from COVID-19. Brazil has registered more than 18 million cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 507,109, according to ministry data. -REUTERS