Cubans are increasingly breeding pigeons as a form of escape, as many are staying indoors due to lockdowns. From a peaceful altar honoring victims of Covid-19, to murals featuring survivors of violence, this art initiative aims to spark awareness about mental health to help Los Angeles heal. From free beer to free childcare, President Joe Biden touted new efforts to get 70% of US adults at least one shot of vaccination against Covid-19 by the July 4 Independence Day holiday. SA expects FDA nod for Johnson & Johnson vaccines by Friday SA’s medicines regulator expects the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will approve the release of Johnson & Johnson’s (J&J) Covid-19 vaccines later this week, clearing the way for the government to rapidly scale up its mass inoculation drive. The government’s plans to use the shot as the workhorse of its vaccination programme were dealt an unexpected blow in early May, after the FDA flagged problems at a US company contracted by J&J to make a key vaccine ingredient. The development put a hold on millions of doses of J&J shots made by contractors that relied on the components made by Emergent BioSolutions, including SA’s Aspen Pharmacare, which at that stage had 1.1 million doses of the vaccine ready for dispatch. Peru almost tripled its official Covid-19 death toll following a government review, making it the country with the worst death rate per capita, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The Australian state of Victoria extended on Wednesday a snap coronavirus lockdown in its capital of Melbourne for a second week, as it scrambles to rein in a highly contagious variant first detected in India, but will ease some curbs elsewhere. President Joe Biden encouraged Americans to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and said that getting a shot is 'not a partisan act.' India's government said on Thursday it has inked a deal with domestic vaccine maker Biological-E for 300 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for 15 billion rupees ($205.62 million), the first such order for unapproved shots. The vaccine, which is currently undergoing phase-3 clinical trials, is likely to be available in the next few months, the health ministry said in a statement. Biological E., which also has a separate deal to produce about 600 million doses of Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 shot annually, said on Tuesday it entered into a licensing agreement with Providence Therapeutics Holdings to manufacture the Canadian company's mRNA Covid-19 vaccine in India. Biological-E will run a clinical trial of Providence's vaccine in India and seek emergency use approval. India, world's second most populous country has suffered a disastrous second wave of infections that is only now abating. Health experts India needs to carry out mass vaccination of its 1.3 billion people to reduce the impact of subsequent waves. Reuters