Britain reported nine new deaths within 28 days of a positive Covid-19 test on Wednesday and a further 9,055 cases of the virus, official government data showed. That compared to 10 deaths and 7,673 cases reported a day earlier. Reuters European Union approval of Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine will be delayed because a June 10 deadline to submit data was missed, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters, diminishing the shot's prospects in the EU's pandemic response. One of the sources, a German government official, said the failure to provide the necessary clinical trial data to the EU medicines watchdog would postpone any go-ahead in the bloc until at least September. "Approval of Sputnik will be delayed probably until September, maybe until the end of the year," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) had previously been expected to conclude its review of the Russian vaccine and issue a decision in May or June. A second source said the June 10 cut-off date not been met and that the vaccine's developer, Russia's Gamaleya Institute, said it will file the requested data next week or at the latest at the end of the month. Reuters Boris Johnson's former chief adviser reignited a campaign of criticism of the government on Wednesday, publishing a text message exchange in which the British leader branded his health minister's coronavirus testing drive "hopeless". Reuters could not independently verify whether the exchange was genuine. Prime minister Johnson's Downing Street office said it would not engage with every allegation made by Dominic Cummings, who left the office late last year. In a blog posting, Cummings intensified his criticism of Johnson and health minister Matt Hancock over their handling of the pandemic, less than a month after accusing the government of being responsible for thousands of avoidable Covid-19 deaths. Reuters ‘From today we don’t listen to what Ramaphosa says about the coronavirus. We don’t comply with nonsense he says about the coronavirus until he gives us vaccine and vaccinates our people’ Motif FoodWorks, which makes plant-based ingredients and flavorings, said on Wednesday it had raised $226 million in a Series B funding round, as meat alternatives have gained traction during the Covid-19 pandemic. Environmental and ethical concerns among consumers have boosted the popularity for faux meat makers Beyond Meat Inc and Impossible Foods, especially over the past year, when several beef and pork producers shut their meat plants to curb the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. The funding round was led by Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board, funds and accounts managed by asset manager BlackRock , and includes participation from equity investor General Atlantic as well as non-profit Rethink Food. The Boston-based startup, which was spun out of biotech company Ginkgo Bioworks in 2019, has raised a total of $345 million to date. Reuters Moderna Inc on Wednesday said the US government bought another 200 million doses of its authorized Covid-19 shot, including the option to purchase other coronavirus vaccine candidates from the company's pipeline. Reuters Shocked by Covid-19 deaths, young Indians rush for life insurance Like many other twenty-somethings in India, Beverly Coutinho kept postponing buying a life insurance policy, until a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths made her confront her own mortality. "I saw people my own age dying, which prompted me to get life insurance immediately," says Coutinho, a 24-year-old senior executive at a public relations agency in Mumbai. "I wouldn't want my family to be in situation where they have to scramble for funds if something happens to me." India reports 62,224 new COVID-19 cases, 2,542 deaths India reported on Wednesday 62,224 new COVID-19 infections over the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed. The South Asian country's total COVID-19 case load now stands at 29.63 million, while total fatalities are at 379,573, the data showed. India added 2,542 deaths overnight. -REUTERS WATCH | Booze restrictions, curfew and level 3: Ramaphosa clamps down ahead of public holiday On Tuesday President Cyril Ramaphosa chaired meetings of the national coronavirus command council (NCCC), the president’s co-ordinating council and the cabinet, and addressed the nation a day before Youth Day. The address came amid calls for tighter restrictions and lockdown measures in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus, with Gauteng at the forefront of the country’s surging third wave of infections.