Level 4 coming: Booze ban, leisure travel in Gauteng nixed, parks to close, say sources President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to move the country to alert level four, banning the sale of alcohol immediately, in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, sources told TimesLIVE. “Alcohol banned for both off and on sales and transportation,” said a source close to the discussions taking place in the national coronavirus command council currently under way. TimesLIVE also understands that when the president delivers his address at 8pm on Sunday night, he will put in place a curfew restricting people to their homes between 9pm and 4am. Three districts in KZN have run out of vaccine doses for teachers The KwaZulu-Natal department of education has announced a temporary suspension of the vaccine rollout at sites in three of its districts in the province, but says there is no need to panic. Spokesperson for the department Muzi Mahlambi said the three affected districts are uMkhanyakude, eThekwini and Pinetown. “All educators that were supposed to be vaccinated tomorrow, Monday, and on Tuesday, we are appealing to them to go back to school and not go to the site where they were supposed to go as it had been planned,” Mahlambi said. As the country waits to hear what restrictions President Cyril Ramaphosa will put in place when he addresses the country on Sunday night, the alcohol industry has thrown in its own recommendations on restrictions the government can introduce to curb the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. A total ban on alcohol sales is not one of them. The industry has recommended that a total ban on alcohol not be put in place, arguing that as much as lives need to be saved, livelihoods also need to be protected. Germany expects drugmaker Moderna Inc to deliver Covid-19 vaccines faster than expected, helping it ramp up vaccinations in coming months, the health ministry said on Sunday. Moderna will increase its deliveries to 1.33 million doses a week in July from 733,000 previously expected, raising the figure to 2.57 million a week in August and 2.95 million a week in September, the ministry said. Moderna said last week it hopes to be able to deliver the Covid-19 vaccines it has promised to Germany more quickly than originally planned, without giving figures. Reuters The National Institute for Communicable Diseases says 17,958 new Covid-19 cases have been identified in SA, representing a 25.6% positivity rate. Its report, issued on Saturday night, said 157 Covid-19 related deaths have been reported, bringing total fatalities related to the pandemic to 59,778. Gauteng accounted for the majority of new cases (63%), followed by the Western Cape (10%). It is your civil duty, when you see someone not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols, to tell them that their conduct is “unbecoming and unacceptable.” This was the statement made by acting health minister Mmamoloko Kubayi during her plea to the country to comply with non-pharmaceutical measures. “We are pleading with you South Africans and we are pleading with you Gautengers. We can increase the restrictions but without your response, we will not be able to win this pandemic,” said Kubayi on Saturday. New Zealand will extend the Covid-19 alert level in the capital Wellington for two days, as authorities said on Sunday there is still a risk from an Australian tourist who tested positive for the coronavirus after visiting the city last weekend. Wellington, which moved to Alert Level 2 on Wednesday, will now remain at that level until Tuesday. "It's clear that we are not out of the woods yet," Covid-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins told a news briefing. Reuters President Cyril Ramaphosa is caught between a rock and a hard place ahead of tonight's family meeting - with calls by health experts to introduce harsher restrictions in light of an unprecedented surge in infections, while organised business calls on him to keep the economy open. His challenge will be further complicated by the need to keep the faltering vaccination rollout moving, while stemming the spread of the dangerous and highly contagious Delta variant, which is spreading across the country. Top government officials are said to have been left shaken by an expert briefing to the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) yesterday. Ramaphosa is now scheduled to outline the government's course of action in a national address at 8pm tonight. Larina Manilall uses plastic crockery and utensils for her safety, battles to communicate with her husband and child, is unable to work and can’t watch TV or type a text. Doctors initially believed she was seeking attention or exaggerating her condition. But they soon realised the 41-year-old Durban woman is suffering from “long Covid” after contracting the virus in December — and her life has been turned upside down. Most people with Covid recover in two to three weeks. But some can experience symptoms for months. There is no data on the prevalence of long Covid in SA, but medical experts understand from both local and global experience that about 30% of Covid patients will experience persistent symptoms beyond three months of the initial illness.