Senegal could begin producing Covid-19 vaccines next year under an agreement with Belgian biotech group Univercells aimed at boosting Africa's drug-manufacturing ambitions, says a source involved in funding the project. As wealthy countries begin to reopen after securing vaccine supplies early, African nations are still struggling to acquire shots. On a continent of 1.3 billion, only about 7 million have been fully vaccinated. Marton Aszalos, a young Hungarian ambulance paramedic, and vet Eniko Tokacs-Mathe had to cancel their wedding twice during the pandemic and are finally getting ready for their big day this summer as Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. Brazil had 66,017 new cases of the novel coronavirus reported in the past 24 hours and 1,689 deaths from Covid-19, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The South American country has registered 16,907,425 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 472,531, according to ministry data, in the world's third worst outbreak outside the United States and India and the second deadliest. Reuters The United States will donate 750,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses to Taiwan as part of the country's plan to share shots globally, US Senator Tammy Duckworth said on Sunday, offering a much-needed boost to the island's fight against the pandemic. Taiwan is dealing with a spike in domestic cases but has been affected like many places by global vaccines shortages. Only around 3% of its 23.5 million people have been vaccinated, with most getting only the first shot of two needed. Speaking at Taipei's downtown Songshan airport after arriving on a three-hour visit with fellow Senators Dan Sullivan and Christopher Coons, Duckworth said Taiwan would be getting 750,000 doses as part of the first tranche of US donations. "It was critical to the United States that Taiwan be included in the first group to receive vaccines because we recognise your urgent need and we value this partnership," she said at a news conference after the group arrived from South Korea. She did not give details of which vaccines Taiwan would get or when. Reuters Australia's second most populous state Victoria on Sunday reported two new locally acquired Covid-19 cases, with the low number raising hopes that a hard lockdown in the state's capital Melbourne will be eased on June 10. The two new local infections bring Victoria's total cases to 72, including two recovered cases, in the outbreak that began in late May after a man who tested negative in hotel quarantine in Adelaide returned to Melbourne and tested positive. The daily rise was down from five new cases reported on Saturday and both cases were linked to existing clusters, which authorities said meant Melbourne's restrictions would probably be eased on Thursday. "If we can, we will lift it early, but at this stage our expectation is that it will continue to Thursday," Victoria's deputy chief health officer Allen Cheng told reporters. Reuters In a matter of weeks, the directors of seven companies contracted to decontaminate Gauteng schools during last year's Covid lockdown blew through more than R40m in a spending spree that included designer watches, jewellery, luxury cars, plastic surgery, investment policies and paying off home loans. From R300m spent on temporary housing structures, most of which were never built, to R45m on food parcels with unverified standards, a partial audit of the billions of rands the government spent fighting Covid-19 paint a picture of looting on an industrial scale. This week the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) released an explosive report on corruption in the past financial year, when, in the face of a global crisis, officials deliberately twisted the rules to enable the theft of public funds.