All of Sun International’s hotels, restaurants and casino properties will be temporarily closed from Monday, after the new Covid-19 regulations announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. While contact classes for school pupils will be suspended from Wednesday, winter classes for grade 11 and 12 pupils are to go ahead. This was the word from basic education minister Angie Motshekga on Monday as she visited Seemahale Secondary School in Botshabelo, in the Free State, where she was conducting an oversight visit amid the vaccination of teachers. “The usual winter vacation learner support programme for grades 11 and 12, organised by provinces, districts and schools, should continue under very strict conditions, in compliance with the Covid-19 health and safety protocols,” Motshekga said. Some of these winter classes are usually held as residential camps. Motshekga said the camps could turn into a super-spreader event and therefore called for these to continue as day classes. Police in KwaZulu-Natal have arrested more than 1,700 people for flouting level 3 lockdown regulations. Police spokesperson Brig Jay Naicker said law enforcement officials were concerned that citizens were being arrested daily for not conforming to lockdown regulations, despite pleas from the government and the health sector for compliance. Provincial commissioner Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi said: “Since the announcement of the level 3 lockdown regulations, we have stepped up our daily operations focused on ensuring that all the citizens in the province comply with the regulations to stem the spread of the Covid-19 virus. The address by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday saw the fulfilling of several predictions about the tightened restrictions SA would be placed under during a surge in Covid-19 infections. Amanda Khoza and Andisiwe Makinana accurately predicted the changes in regulations in an article on TimesLIVE before the address. In the days and hours leading up to the announcement, several experts, businesses and social media users shared what they thought would be high on the agenda.​ Ramaphosa said the measures agreed by the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) are aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19 in SA. He said the Delta variant first detected in India has spread to more than 85 countries and was dominant in SA. Despite SA moving to adjusted alert level 4 of the lockdown, the Vodacom Durban July (VDJ) race day will go ahead on Saturday. Gold Circle said in a media statement on Monday that “attendance at all race meetings in KwaZulu-Natal, from today until further notice, will be limited to essential services personnel: trainers, jockeys, grooms, National Horseracing Authority staff and Gold Circle employees required to ensure each race meeting can proceed. “No owners, Gold Circle members or box/suite holders will be permitted access to either Hollywoodbets Greyville or Hollywoodbets Scottsville until further notice.” Basic education minister Angie Motshekga said on Monday teaching at government schools will stop on Wednesday and start again on July 19. China administered about 20.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines on June 27, bringing the total number of doses administered to 1.186 billion, data from the National Health Commission showed on Monday. Reuters Crèches and daycare centres will remain open under adjusted alert level 4 of the lockdown. Under the new Covid-19 regulations, as per the government gazette on Monday, “early childhood development centres will remain open”. All public and private schools will close early for the winter break from Wednesday. After president Cyril Ramaphosa's address to the nation on Sunday night, The SA Childcare Association told its members that the regulations on school closures only applied to institutions governed by the education department. “Only the minister of social development can close early childhood development centres under the Children's Act,” it said. Under adjusted alert level 4, gyms and fitness centres, flea markets, nightclubs, casinos, taverns and shebeens, restaurants, except for takeaways, conferencing, entertainment facilities, theatres, cinemas, museums, libraries and galleries are to be closed to the public. With the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme under way, no person, insured or uninsured, is expected to pay to receive a jab. The second phase of the vaccine rollout is expected to run until October 17 and prioritises citizens who are 60 and older. 0.8% of the population in SA has been fully vaccinated and 2.9% of the population has received one dose of the two-dose Pfizer vaccine. While the health ministry pushes for vaccination of the elderly, those behind bars have not been left behind. On Monday the department of correctional services (DCS) reported that its vaccination processes for prisoners who are 60 and above was going according to plan with more than 500 prisoners vaccinated to date. The prisoners were receiving their jabs alongside prison healthcare workers and guards. “As of June 24, 797 healthcare professionals, or 77.9% of correctional services healthcare workers, had received their vaccines. Ninety officials and 537 inmates aged over 60 also received their first dose of the Pfizer vaccine. Other inmates and officials will receive vaccines during the next phases,” said department spokesperson Sechaba Mphahlele. At the Qauia settlement, a community of more than 2,000 near Fiji's capital of Suva, police stand guard to ensure no one other than health workers comes in - or out - of an area that has become a hotspot of Covid-19 infections. After keeping the coronavirus at bay last year, Fiji, with a population of about 900,000, is now recording as many as 300 new cases a day as part of a wave of infections linked to the highly transmissible Delta strain, a variant first detected in India. The spread has been rampant in the Pacific island's close-knit settlements, with Qauia representing the fastest-growing cluster, according to health authorities. "The names of those who are sick are not mentioned. Those within the zone who are sick, their names are not publicised so we do not know who is sick nor do we know if any of our relatives are sick," said Sefaira Vere Waqaituinayau, who has family members in Qauia. "So what we do is we organise food and other items to be taken into the zone, through the police or soldiers, to deliver to our relatives." Although the total number of infections in Qauia is not public, the settlement recorded 153 cases in a single day last week, according to official data. Reuters There is no way there will be zero coronavirus cases among athletes arriving for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, so border controls need to be strict to stop the spread, said Japanese Olympic Committee President Yasuhiro Yamashita at a news conference on Monday. He also added that imposing restrictions such as requiring delegations from countries like India to quarantine was necessary to gain the understanding of the Japanese public. With less than a month until the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games start, more athletic delegations have been arriving in Japan. Two members of the Ugandan delegation tested positive for coronavirus. Reuters New coronavirus infections in the United Arab Emirates are mostly from more infectious variants leading to an increase in the number of virus-linked deaths, a federal authority has said. The Gulf Arab state, with a population of about 9 million, has had one of the world's fastest vaccination campaigns. However, cases have risen over the past month to more than 2,000 new infections a day, though that is still below a peak in February. On Saturday, the UAE recorded 10 deaths, its highest single daily toll since March, according to the Reuters Covid-19 tracker. The National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) said the increase in deaths was due to the spread of the Beta, Delta and Alpha variants. The Beta variant, first detected in South Africa, is the most dominant variant in the UAE, accounting for 39.2% of cases, it said. Delta, first detected in India, accounts for 33.9% of infections. Alpha, first detected in Britain, accounts for 11.3%, it said on Twitter late on Sunday. The World Health Organisation (WHO) this month warned that Delta was becoming the globally dominant variant of the disease with its increased transmissibility. Reuters Political parties have accused government of forcing South Africans to pay the price for vaccine rollout failures by adopting the adjusted level 4 lockdown, while concern is mounting for those at risk of losing their incomes. Trade union federation Cosatu said relief needed to be provided for those sectors of the economy prohibited from trading or required to downscale, including the liquor, tourism, hospitality, sports and events sectors. Two liquor industry bodies have asked the president to reconsider the 14-day ban on alcohol sales, with one saying it is considering taking legal action. Scores have reacted to the move to level 4 lockdown following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address on Sunday night. The president moved the country from level 3 to level 4 for 14 days, citing the increase in Covid-19 cases. The move comes after a meeting of the national coronavirus command council, the president’s co-ordinating council and cabinet after the shocking news that the Delta variant is dominant in SA. Australia's Covid-19 response committee is due to hold an emergency meeting on Monday as outbreaks of the highly contagious Delta variant across the country prompted a lockdown in Sydney and renewed restrictions elsewhere. Around 18 million Australians, or around 70% of the population, are now under some form of lockdown or Covid-related restrictions as officials grapple with Covid-19 flare-ups in almost every state or territory. "I think we are entering a new phase of this pandemic, with the more contagious Delta strain," federal Treasurer Josh Frydenberg told the Australian Broadcasting Corp on Monday, adding Australia was facing a "critical time" in its fight against Covid-19. The national security committee, chaired by Prime Minister Scott Morrison, will be briefed by the country's chief medical officer later on Monday, Frydenberg said. Sydney, Australia's most populous city and home to a fifth of Australia's 25 million people, was plunged into a two-week lockdown over the weekend. Reuters India reported on Monday 46,148 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed. The South Asian country's total Covid-19 case load now stands at 30.27 million, while total fatalities are at 396,730, the data showed. India's coronavirus-related deaths rose by 979 overnight. Reuters Put on an extra jersey, open your window and always wear a mask. That’s the message from the GreenFlag Association, which is researching air quality in minibus taxis, to South African taxi drivers. As the rate of Covid-19 infections continues to increase, particularly in Gauteng, the public benefit organisation focused on promoting awareness of good ventilation in closed spaces, this week reiterating that poorly ventilated public transport has the potential to be a super-spreader. GreenFlag has found that public transport is the perfect environment for spreading Covid-19, especially in winter temperatures when commuters prefer to keep vehicle windows closed. The organisation is working with students at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) to research air quality in minibus taxis. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced new regulations on Sunday evening as Covid-19 cases continued to surge in SA. The president was addressing the nation on developments in the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. He has placed the country on adjusted level 4. The address follows meetings of the national coronavirus command council, the president’s co-ordinating council and cabinet. The government was forced to meet on Saturday and Sunday following the shocking news of the Delta variant which is now dominant in SA.