Indonesia will tighten social restrictions for two weeks starting Tuesday, a government minister said, in a bid to contain a surge in coronavirus cases in the world's fourth most populous country. The curbs will apply to 'red zones' where cases have been rising sharply this month, Coordinating Economic Minister Airlangga Hartarto told a streamed news conference on Monday. The tightened regulations will mean that offices, restaurants, cafes and malls in such areas will only be permitted to operate at 25% capacity. Religious activities at all houses of worship in red zones will be temporarily suspended, and tourist attractions closed. Vital sectors, such as basic services, can operate at 100% capacity with stricter health protocols, while office capacity in non-red zone areas will be 50%. Reuters Australian states and territories will get more doses of Covid-19 vaccines soon, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday, as authorities look to avoid further delays in an immunisation drive that has hit several roadblocks. Australian states have been asking for increased supplies of vaccines after Australia last week announced a policy shift that recommended AstraZeneca shots for over 60s only due to blood clot concerns, throwing the rollout into disarray. "They are all getting additional doses ... it scales up again in July when the additional Pfizer doses go out," Morrison told radio station 2GB on Monday. Morrison did not specify the number of shots each state would get. Health authorities said the Pfizer vaccine rollout is currently "operating in a resource-constrained environment" but distribution is expected to accelerate from August. "As we get into that third-quarter, fourth-quarter, we will have far freer flows of Pfizer and start to be able to allocate that more freely," Lieutenant General John Frewen, the head of the country's vaccine taskforce, told reporters in Canberra after a meeting of the national cabinet. Reuters China's foreign ministry urged the United States on Monday not to seek "political manipulation" in the name of vaccine assistance after the United States delivered 2.5 million Covid-19 shots to Chinese-claimed Taiwan. Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian made the comment at a daily news briefing in Beijing. Reuters Seemingly lost for an explanation of why vaccine uptake is so low in Russia when coronavirus infections are soaring and vaccines are readily available, the Kremlin resorted on Friday to complaining of "nihilism". Five months into the campaign, and a growing battery of threats as well as incentives, by June 2 only 18 million Russians had received at least one dose of vaccine. Vaccinations are even available in department stores. But at just one-eighth of the population, that figure, the most recent available, is far lower than in most Western countries. The hold-outs have proved impervious not only to cash payments and chances to win a car or even an apartment, but also to loss of earnings and threats of dismissal. And unlike most countries, Russia is not short of vaccines, having approved four domestically made shots, and finding willing buyers around the world for the most widely available, Sputnik V. Reuters Basic education minister Angie Motshekga is at the receiving end of criticism after she reiterated calls for schools to reopen full-time amid fears about the surge in Covid-19 infections. Briefing the media at the weekend, the minister said the department was doing all it could to avoid a  “academic disaster”. She said Covid-19 infections at schools must be treated on a case-by-case basis and must not be nationalised. New Zealand's medicines regulator Medsafe has provisionally approved the use of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced on Monday. “After careful consideration of the most up-to-date scientific and medical data available, Medsafe has announced provisional approval for our young people to be given the Pfizer vaccine,” Ardern said in a statement. There are around 265,000 children in the 12-15 age bracket in New Zealand, she said. Reuters When the global pandemic began, many predicted African countries would suffer devastating losses. And there have been more than five million cases and nearly 140-thousand deaths on the continent. But there have been worrying signs in recent weeks, with more contagious variants driving up infections in many African countries. Cases in some regions have more than doubled in just the past week. The number of deaths has gone up as well. Leaders in Africa are now urgently appealing for more vaccines. But would that stop the rise in new infections on the continent? Former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said states with lower vaccination rates in the Midwest and South are seeing an upsurge in cases involving the highly-infectious Delta coronavirus variant. Hundreds of red roses dotted Rio's Copacabana beach as Brazil’s death toll from Covid-19 surpassed 500,000. As some governments and pharmaceutical officials prepare for Covid-19 booster shots targeting more infectious virus variants, health authorities say it’s too early to tell if they will be required. “We do not have the information that’s necessary to make the recommendation on whether or not a booster will be needed,” said Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) chief scientist. The “science is still evolving”. Such a call is “premature” while high-risk individuals in most of the world haven’t yet completed a first course of vaccination, she said. Data from countries introducing precautionary extra inoculations later this year, particularly for vulnerable people whose immunity to SARS-CoV-2 may wane faster, will inform WHO’s guidance, Swaminathan added.