Given that the only contact between you and the road when driving are the postcard-sized surfaces of your tyres, their importance can’t be understated. Here’s a look at how to maintain and change your tyres. Anyone who’s seen how quickly a supercar can slip off a racetrack because of worn-out tyres will know that, no matter how good your car is, its performance largely depends on the quality of its tyres and the grip they provide. So, what exactly do these rough bands of rubber do? Tyres have four main jobs: Why are good tyres so important? Good tyres are important for a safe and comfortable ride. Poor tyres can undermine your car’s performance, extend your stopping distance, and cause you to skid. If your tyres are underinflated or worn, it will increase your fuel consumption and carbon emissions. If they’re overinflated, you’ll have less control and braking will be less stable, which is dangerous. One in every 10 accidents in wet conditions are caused by worn tyres. Further to this, a tyre’s grip on the road is reduced by 75% when it’s 50% worn. How do I maintain my tyres? Start by following these pointers: How to change a tyre Knowing how to change a tyre yourself can save you time, money and stress on the roads. Every driver should learn how to change your tyre: Now you know how to change your tyre. Remember, your tyres play a role in your driving safety, so treat them well — and happy driving! Fund up to 100% of your new tyres at Tiger Wheel & Tyre. Keeping your car in roadworthy condition leads to fewer accidents, lower claims and improved road safety. Don’t delay replacing worn tyres. Fund up to 100% of your new tyres using the Insure Funder Account at Tiger Wheel & Tyre. When visiting Tiger Wheel & Tyre, you will get an initial discount of up to 20% on your new tyres, depending on your Vitality Drive status. For more on how to best take care of your car and get the most out of your car insurance cover, see the Discovery Insure “Good Driving” hub of information. This article was paid for by Discovery Insure.