Unexpected power surges and load-shedding are our current reality; so are there ways we can protect our valued appliances and electronics from the damaging effects? Here are some useful tips. Many of us own electronically powered gadgets, appliances and computers in our homes. Power surges can result in damage to electronics or appliances, which are often irreparable. Computers can even experience data loss from a power surge. There are things you can do to protect your valuables — and it’s simpler than you may think. In SA, the standard electrical voltage supply is 220/230 volts at a frequency of 50HZ. Power surges occur when the voltage exceeds the norm and flows at a higher voltage and frequency. When the normal operating voltage is exceeded, an arc of electrical current can occur. This generates heat, which causes damage to an electronic circuit board, and by extension, an affected appliance or electronic device. Surges can happen during a power grid-switching process, or unexpectedly if there’s a malfunction in a nearby transmission line or transformer. Load-shedding and even an instance where a lightning strike occurs during an electrical storm can also result in power surges too. Smaller power surges are also possible if a high-powered electrical appliance, such as a refrigerator or an air conditioner, switches on and off too often. The motors and compressors of these appliances typically require a considerable amount of energy to switch on and off, so if they do, the normal voltage flow in the electrical system is disrupted — resulting in a surge. Damage as a result of smaller power surges can be incremental and accumulate over time. A major surge can cause more permanent damage instantly, but smaller disruptions typically tend to shorten the “lifespan” of a particular device or appliance over time. A utility company may need to perform maintenance, which could result in surges. Any other occurrence is likely to be unexpected. So, to best protect either small or major surges from damaging your valuables, the tips below can be useful to get into the habit of implementing: Discovery Insure home insurance plans offer varying levels of cover for power surge claims that result in damage or replacement. Discovery Insure clients can also upgrade its Essential and Classic plans to higher amounts of power-surge cover for a small monthly amount. To find out about the power surge cover from Discovery Insure, call +27 (0) 860-751-751 or speak to your adviser. This article was paid for by Discovery Insure.