Proteas fast bowler Lungi Ngidi says he loves the surroundings in St Lucia in the West Indies but cautioned that the weather may be a tricky thing to navigate in terms of how the visitors manage certain stages during Test matches. The Proteas return to Test action on Thursday with the start of the first of two  at the Daren Sammy Cricket Ground. Ngidi‚ like  almost everyone in the touring party‚ is touring the Caribbean for the first time with the Proteas and admitted while they have been warmly welcomed‚ the weather has kept the team guessing. “You know with the overcast conditions they change literally every 30 minutes and you never know what you are going to get. One minute there is rain and the next it is scorching hot and then  it's windy‚” said the 25-year-old Durban-born star. “So when it is overcast you can use it as much as you can with the swing and when it is pretty much hot you just have  to exploit the bounce. When it's windy again you try to  use the swing and get the ball to move as much as possible.” The big fast bowler‚ though‚ said the team had already acclimatised to the weather and was ready for whatever they are faced with. “I think we have been pretty good with it. You never know what you are going to expect. One morning you think you are going to get out early and then it is raining and then it is hot for the rest of the day and in the afternoon it starts raining. “So I think we are pretty much used to anything that can happen. We just have to take it in our strides but I just think that we got to be aware of the weather in terms of when we are out there batting or bowling.” With a full-strength team without any injury concerns‚ Ngidi said the team is gunning for a clean sweep of the Test series. “Look, for me personally, 2-0 is what any team will be looking for. To be honest we are looking forward to a Test series win.” The Proteas have not bossed their opponents in Test cricket for a long time now and Ngidi agrees that needs to change with the team enjoying a fine balance of experience and youth. “It has been a while since we have been able to put in solid, convincing performances and blow teams away. “So that is what we are focusing on. We have  some experience in the team and we have  some youth. “There’s always energy on the field and there are those guys who are going to keep you in your lane when you start getting a bit excited. So it should be a good Test series. I’m sure a lot of fans back home would like to see the Proteas win and that is what we are working towards.”