Celebrate the 2021 avo season by adding an avo (or two) to your family’s best-loved dishes, for simple, quick and delicious meals made with love. If 2020 taught us anything, it’s to spend more time doing what we love, such as sharing wholesome meals, and less time doing what we don’t like, such as being in the kitchen preparing them. Good thing the 2021 avo season is in full swing because avos are definitely more of what we love and are an easy way to add that something special to any regular family meal. The buttery, creamy green-skinned avo varieties Fuerte, Edranol, Ryan, Reed and Pinkerton are available from March until October, and the rich, nutty dark-skinned Hass, Maluma Hass and Lamb Hass from March until November. While we love the fact that SA avos are available almost all year round, we’re particularly happy they’re in plentiful supply in winter due to the immune support they may offer in the colder months. Did you know avos are high in copper, a source of fibre (5.3g fibre per 100g) and contain antioxidants? Copper is known to support immune system function. Fibre is essential for good gut health; about 65% of the immune system is housed in the gut, which regulates immunity and helps to protect against invading pathogens that cause disease. Antioxidants are powerful food components that maintain and regulate immune function, and avos contain the antioxidant nutrients lycopene and beta-carotene. So not only are avos ripe and ready right now, but they’re a source of nutrients, versatile and super quick and easy to add to most recipes. Almost every meal can be perfected with avos; try it on steaks, burgers, baked potatoes, pasta ... the list goes on. MEXICAN CHICKEN TRAY BAKE Serves 4 Prep time: 10 minutes Cooking time: 40 minutes Total time: 50 minutes Ingredients: For the chilli-lime cream: Method: AVOCADO BAGELS WITH FURIKAKE SEASONING Furikake seasoning is a Japanese seasoning of dried seaweed, toasted sesame seeds and spices, usually used on rice; it is also delicious with avocado. Serves 4 Prep time: 10 minutes Cooking time: 0 Total time: 10 minutes Ingredients: pomegranate seeds, toasted seeds such as pumpkin and sunflower For the Furikake: Method: GRILLED AVOCADO & BABY GEM SALAD Serves 4 Preparation time: 20 minutes Cooking time: 2 minutes Total time: 22 minutes Ingredients: For the tahini-yogurt dressing: For the salad: Method: Serve with a crusty French loaf or ciabatta. This article was paid for by the SA Avocado Growers' Association.