The SA Health Products Regulatory Authority (Sahpra) said on Tuesday it had approved a “section 21” emergency use application for the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech. The country’s drugs regulator said the approval was subject to further efficacy and safety surveillance of the vaccine in the country, including against the dominant local coronavirus variant. Hungary's Covid-19 cases are expected to rise further in the weeks ahead, Surgeon General Cecilia Muller said on Tuesday, as doctors warned the local health system was entering its most critical period for half a century. The Hungarian Medical Chamber said in a statement that the pandemic situation was "critical" and the healthcare system could reach its limits any time. As of Tuesday, Hungary had reported 529,122 cases and 17,226 deaths from Covid-19. More than 1,000 people are on ventilators, straining hospitals. Muller told an online briefing that some hospitals had to involve additional departments in treating Covid-19 patients because of a recent surge in new cases. "All of our epidemiological figures are unfolding unfavourably," Muller said. Reuters The average mental wellbeing score was highest for respondents from Singapore and the US. The study from The Mental Health Million Project provided key insights on the impact Covid-19 had on mental health in each corner of the globe a year since the outbreak. Pick n Pay has agreed to cap profit margins on garlic and ginger after the Competition Commission said consumers had complained about the high prices of the products at a variety of grocers around the country. The social media company said in a blog post it is also launching a tool in the US to give people information about where to get Covid-19 vaccines and adding a Covid-19 information area to its photo-sharing site Instagram. The Covid-19 pandemic is severely affecting the care of sick or premature newborn babies, with many being unnecessarily separated from their mothers and put at risk of death or long-term health problems, global health experts said on Tuesday. Three major US drug distributors have requested the government to expand the Covid-19 vaccine supply chain network as the country strives to immunise its population against the novel coronavirus as quickly as possible. Jordan used teargas on Monday to suppress protests against a curfew imposed to stem a severe outbreak of Covid-19, witnesses and residents said. Police took action after hundreds of protesters in several cities including Amman demonstrated for a second day and defied a night curfew which was extended last week, they said. SA could achieve herd immunity by February next year if it vaccinates 210,000 people a day. Families in Asia's financial hub of Hong Kong are suffering isolation and trauma after strict coronavirus rules have led to babies being separated from parents and those with newborns herded into tiny quarantine quarters for up to 14 days. Hong Kong authorities have ordered that anyone testing positive for the virus must go to hospital, including babies, while all their close contacts, even those who test negative, are sent to makeshift quarantine camps. Families in Asia's financial hub of Hong Kong are suffering isolation and trauma after strict coronavirus rules have led to babies being separated from parents and those with newborns herded into tiny quarantine quarters for up to 14 days. Hong Kong authorities have ordered that anyone testing positive for the virus must go to hospital, including babies, while all their close contacts, even those who test negative, are sent to makeshift quarantine camps. "It’s crazy," said one mother, who said she had to abruptly stop breastfeeding following separation from her seven-month-old son last week after she was diagnosed with Covid-19. Venezuela will not authorize AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, Vice President Delcy Rodriguez said on Monday, citing its "effects on patients." Reuters Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday in preparation for a meeting with US President Joe Biden next month. Suga is the first Japanese government official to publicly receive the vaccine. Some 80-90 officials will be inoculated before heading to the United States early next month, where Suga will become the first world leader to meet Biden as president. "It didn't hurt, although it seemed so," Suga told reporters after he was inoculated. Reuters Australia has no plans to halt the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, authorities said on Tuesday, even though several European countries paused administering the vaccine after reports of possible serious side-effects. Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus joined several other European nations on Monday in temporarily suspending vaccinations with AstraZeneca shots after reports of isolated cases of bleeding, blood clots and low platelet count in some of the nations. "While the European Medicines Agency is investigating these events, it has reinforced its view that the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is successful in protecting against Covid-19 and should continue to be used in the rollout," Australia Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly said in an emailed statement. Reuters