The family of the late media personality Karima Brown have expressed their pride in all she achieved in her career. “We are enormously proud of the fierce determination she had shown, since her early years, to get involved in bringing about a more just, inclusive, and anti-racist SA. This determination also shaped her fearless approach to journalism. She was driven by a conviction that journalism must be in service of justice,” read a statement from the family. Brown died on Thursday morning after several weeks of hospitalisation, battling Covid-19 complications. Her family said she had lived her life to the fullest. “Karima was not just a prolific and well-known SA journalist and commentator, with deep footprints in print and broadcast media, but also and more importantly a well-loved friend, mentor, mother, colleague, daughter and confidante to countless people throughout a life lived fully, and with deep commitment to her most cherished values and principles.” Her employer, eNCA, also hailed her for her contribution to the media industry. “She had big voice and didn’t shy away from voicing her opinions.” Company MD Norman Munzhelele expressed his condolences to her family. “For a long time, Karima has been a robust voice in SA's media landscape. Her years of activism preceded this. She had a big personality and didn’t shy away from voicing her opinions. Karima believed in hope. She was also a loving mother, a loyal friend and a committed colleague. Her death leaves a massive void for man,” Munzhelele said. “Our thoughts are with her son, family and friends at this sad time,” he added. Brown's family said a private burial ceremony will be held in accordance with Islamic rites and traditions. “A small number of invited persons will attend the funeral and all Covid-19 regulations will be observed.” A public memorial service  will be held soon. News of Brown’s death has flooded social media, with scores of people expressing their shock, including former public protector Thuli Madonsela. Political  leaders were among the first to convey their condolences to Brown's family. Former DA leader Mmusi Maimane said: “This is sad news indeed. I would like to extend my condolences to the family of Karima Brown and to her  colleagues. May her soul rest in peace.” Minister of public works Patricia de Lille hailed Brown for her work ethic. “Extremely saddened by the passing of veteran journalist #KarimaBrown. Karima was a hard-hitting journalist, a stalwart known for her excellent probing skills. My condolences to her family, colleagues & friends. The fourth estate is poorer without her. RIP Karima,” said De Lille. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula said Brown was a “brilliant journalist”, adding that her death was a huge loss to the media industry. Former colleagues of Brown also took to their social media accounts to pay tribute to her. TimesLIVE