In March of last year, Steve Cicala took his wife, Susan, to the emergency room at Clara Maass Medical Center in New Jersey to treat a worsening cough and fever, unaware she had Covid-19. As her breathing and blood pressure deteriorated, she was given azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine and put on a ventilator. Eleven days after being admitted to the same hospital where she had worked for years as a nurse, Susan went into cardiac arrest and died at age 60. Steve Cicala is now the first person known to be pursuing a Covid-19 claim with a decade-old US government fund that has up to $30 billion that can be used to compensate for serious injuries or deaths caused by treatments or vaccines in the fight against the pandemic. For millions of Covid-19 survivors, the common question is always how long will the symptoms and the viral load last? While for many with mild illness symptoms the virus often clears within a few weeks, a new study by US researchers has revealed that it may linger in the gut up to seven months after Covid-19 symptoms have disappeared. Researchers from Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York City detected the virus in some patients long after their symptoms had disappeared, including those who never had gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting and nausea. Algeria recorded its first 13 cases of the coronavirus variant first discovered in Nigeria and also tested positive seven other people for the variant first identified in Britain, state research centre Pasteur Institute said on Thursday. The 13 cases were detected in Algiers and other southern and eastern provinces, it said in a statement. Hospitals in Brazil's main cities are reaching capacity, health officials warned, as the country recorded the world's highest Covid-19 death toll over the past week, triggering tighter restrictions on Thursday in its most populous state. Intensive care wards for treating Covid-19 patients have reached critical occupancy levels over 90% in 15 of 27 state capitals, according to biomedical center Fiocruz. In Porto Alegre in southern Brazil, the main reference hospital for COVID-19 stopped admitting new cases because all its ICU beds were taken. A Reuters photographer saw patients on respirators crowding emergency rooms. Health authorities in Denmark, Norway and Iceland on Thursday suspended the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine shots following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated. Austria earlier stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots while investigating a death from coagulation disorders and an illness from a pulmonary embolism. Still, the European medicine regulator EMA benefits said the vaccine's benefits outweighed its risks and could continue to be administered. Tanzania's President John Magufuli is in good health and working normally, one of his diplomats has told a broadcaster in Namibia, countering reports he had been flown to hospital in Kenya and then India in a critical condition with Covid-19. Magufuli, 61, who is Africa's most prominent coronavirus sceptic, has not been seen in public since Feb. 27. Tanzanian opposition leader Tundu Lissu has cited medical and security sources for information that the president was flown to the private Nairobi Hospital in neighbouring Kenya and then on to India in a coma. Mozambique expects to receive 1.7 million more doses of Covid-19 vaccines by May from various bilateral sources, its prime minister said on Thursday. Mozambique kicked off its Covid-19 vaccination program on Monday after receiving a donation of 200,000 doses from the China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) last month. The government aims to inoculate around 60,000 health workers in the country of about 30 million, nearly half of which are adults. It wants to vaccinate 16 million people by 2022. So far, 15,000 people have been vaccinated. South Africa's medicines regulator SAHPRA said on Friday that it had received documentation for the Covid-19 vaccine developed by China's Sinovac.It added in a statement that it would now start evaluating the data and assessing the efficacy of the vaccine. Reuters President Joe Biden said on Thursday he would direct US states to make all adults eligible for the coronavirus vaccine by May 1 and urged Americans in a televised address to stay vigilant against the virus, hours after he signed a $1.9 trillion stimulus bill into law. In a forceful but sombre speech from the White House on the first anniversary of the pandemic lockdown, Biden said he was working to speed Covid-19 vaccinations to create a greater sense of normalcy in the country by the July 4 Independence Day holiday.