Poland announces lockdown; could toughen it if epidemic doesn't ease - minister Poland could introduce even stricter curbs if the coronavirus epidemic not ease, Health Minister Adam Niedzielski said on Wednesday, as he announced nationwide restrictions set to come into force on Saturday. He added that Poland could see over 30,000 new daily coronavirus cases starting next week if the trend continues. Poland reported 25,052 cases on Wednesday, according to health ministry data, the highest so far in 2021. -REUTERS The coronavirus situation is worsening in the greater Paris region where hospitals are under immense strain, the director-general of the AP-HP Paris hospitals organisation, Martin Hirsch, said on Wednesday. Hirsch told RTL radio there were two options to contain the disease — a local weekend lockdown, already in place in other parts of the country, or a broader lockdown in the region. “The virus is not under control. There are as many patients in intensive care units today as there were at the peak of the second wave,” he said. Support for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives has hit its lowest level in a year, a poll released on Wednesday showed, as frustration over her government's management of the coronavirus crisis grows. Facing a federal election in September without Merkel, who is standing aside after four terms, the Christian Democrats (CDU) and Bavarian CSU sister party dropped 4 percentage points in a week to 29%, the Forsa poll showed. That is the lowest level since the start of the coronavirus pandemic in Germany in March 2020 and follows historic defeats in two regional votes on Sunday. The Western Cape government has mobilised a R2.17bn “war chest” to defeat Covid-19 in the province. This is according to the province’s finance and economic opportunities MEC David Maynier who was presenting its provincial budget on Tuesday. Maynier said the money will be allocated in different areas in the Western Cape, including procuring its own Covid-19 vaccine, the vaccine rollout and preparing for a potential third wave of Covid-19 infections in the province. Britain is looking at the idea of vaccine passports and discussing the best way to proceed in terms of fairness, said business minister Kwarsi Kwarteng. P&O Cruises said earlier on Wednesday that it would only accept as passengers those who have had the vaccine for trips around the UK this summer, sparking a fresh debate on the issue. "We are discussing what the best way to proceed is," Kwarteng told the BBC when asked about the fairness of non-vaccinated people being denied access to hospitality, entertainment and travel. Australia said on Wednesday it will ask the European Union to release 1 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine to help Papua New Guinea (PNG) battle a dangerous outbreak, a request that is likely to inflame tensions over vaccine supplies. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the vaccines were contracted to Australia but were badly needed to contain a surge in coronavirus cases in the Pacific island nation, parts of which are just a short boat ride from Australian territory. “We've contracted them. We've paid for them and we want to see those vaccines come here so we can support our nearest neighbour, PNG, to deal with their urgent needs in our region,” Morrison told reporters in Canberra. Health care experts continue to be at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 as health workers receive the vaccine across the country. SA confirmed its first case of Covid-19 in March last year and experts have helped millions sift through the medical jargon to better understand the coronavirus. The first batch of Johnson & Johnson vaccines arrived in SA last month and are being administered through the Sisonke programme.