Britain’s medicine regulator has approved a 20-second Covid-19 test, the product’s distributor said on Friday when it launched a testing system it said could be used in airports, sports venues and businesses. Rapid tests are seen as a key part of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s roadmap out of lockdown, but concerns have been expressed about the accuracy of existing lateral flow devices. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula is getting shaded on social media for his opinion on the government’s fight against Covid-19. On Thursday Mbalula suggested no other government in the world was better than the SA government when it came to dealing with the pandemic. “Which part of the world is better than us?” Mbalula responded to a tweet suggesting the pandemic would affect SA for the next five years because of the government. Health minister Zweli Mkhize says discussions around “stricter precautions” ahead of the Easter long weekend are being finalised. Speaking to the SABC on Thursday, Mkhize said the decision to move the country to a higher lockdown level was being discussed by government officials and will be based on recommendations from epidemiological experts. “The matter is being finalised. I don’t have the full answer as we speak, but there have been recommendations for stricter lockdown regulations,” said Mkhize There are clear signals that the current wave of coronavirus infections in Germany could be worse than the first two, the chief of Germany's RKI health insitute said on Friday. If people use the Easter days to reduce contacts, then this third wave could at least be tempered, Lothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for Infectious Diseases, told a news conference on Friday. Reuters Starting a new job is generally challenging and stressful, but doing so in the medical field during the onset of a global pandemic that has changed the world adds extra layers of stress and anxiety. However, Lehlohonolo Majake-Mogoba, 39, a public health specialist and operations manager at a private hospital in Pretoria, has taken it all in her stride, running the hospital, looking after nearly 200 staff members and taking care of her family. It’s been a little over a year since Covid-19 arrived in SA with the first case identified on March 5 2020. Since then, more than 52,000 people have lost their lives to the coronavirus and more than 1.5 million people have been infected by it. India plans to widen a coronavirus vaccination campaign soon to include more younger people, the health minister said on Friday, as its new infections rose by the most in more than five months. The world's biggest vaccine-making nation has held back large exports of the AstraZeneca shot to meet growing domestic demand. But there is no outright ban, a government source said, and vaccine supply will be staggered. All above the age of 45 are eligible for vaccination from April 1, the government has said, and it is now working to meet a demand by many states for the inclusion of all adults, after new infections nearly quadrupled this month. Reuters Prof Koleka Mlisana has been appointed to replace Prof Salim Abdool Karim as co-chair of the ministerial advisory committee (MAC) on Covid-19 after his one-year term came to an end this week. In a statement, Abdool Karim said he was stepping down to focus on his other academic work. When President Cyril Ramaphosa extended the country’s first hard lockdown, a pastor had to rely on handouts and a reprieve on his rent to survive, while a salon owner was forced to retrench all 29 of her employees and close her two salons. Steven Ndlovu, 33, a pastor from Diepkloof, Soweto, and Smangele Sibisi, 30, a salon owner from Protea, also in Soweto, told Sowetan of how their lives were changed after the lockdown forced them to leave their full-time jobs. Russia's Covid-19 case total reached 4,501,859 on Friday after authorities reported 9,167 new infections nationwide in the last 24 hours, including 1,813 in Moscow. The government coronavirus taskforce also said that 405 people had died in the last 24 hours, pushing its death toll to 97,017. Reuters A quarter of small, medium and micro (SMME) enterprises reported being forced to close their doors as a result of Covid-19 and there was a chance that a collective 1.2 staff could be laid off over the next six months. These are figures from the BeyondCovid Business Survey, which paints a bleak picture for the future of the country's SMME sector one year on from when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country.