The Serum Institute of India (SII) has told Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Morocco that further supplies of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine will be delayed due to surging demand at home and as it works through a capacity expansion, a source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. The news comes as India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, is being criticised domestically for donating or selling more doses than inoculations conducted at home, despite reporting the most number of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil. India is currently seeing a second surge of cases, taking its total to about 11.6 million. The latest delays, first reported by the Times of India daily, came to light days after Britain said it would have to slow its Covid-19 vaccine roll-out next month as SII was likely to deliver more doses later than expected. SII has supplied half of the 10 million doses recently ordered by Britain.Brazil has already received 4 million doses from SII, Saudi Arabia 3 million doses and Morocco 7 million. Reuters China reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on March 20, up from 4 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday. The National Health Commission said all the new cases were imported from abroad. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed, was eight, the same as a day earlier. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China now stands at 90,099, while the death toll remained at 4,636. Reuters Mexico has registered 5,729 new confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and 608 additional fatalities, bringing the total in the country to 2,193,639 cases and 197,827 deaths, health ministry data showed on Saturday. The government says the real number of infected people is likely significantly higher than the confirmed cases. Reuters For months, silence reigned in pensioner Amy Green’s tiny Durban flat. She wept sometimes as she yearned for family Sunday lunches, sleepovers and hugs from her nine grandchildren and three children. Shoppers are out for vengeance. A year into a pandemic that has devastated lives, jobs and the economy, those who are lucky enough to have disposable income are ready to go out and splurge — even if they still have nowhere to go in that stunning dress or those brand-new sneakers. Some are calling this “revenge spending”. All over the country museums and theatres are falling victim to the pandemic, as one by one roads to the soul are closed With negotiations to sell 1-million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to 20 AU countries finally concluded, the government said it was ready to begin the handover. "Because the negotiations were amicable, we are confident that should a compelling need arise to revisit the decisions made, both parties will be willing to engage," said health department spokesperson Popo Maja. Another week, another seven days of deafening silence on the project that ought to be at the top of every politician's to-do list: a mass-vaccination programme to enable SA and its 60-million people to cast off the shackles of Covid-19. Can you believe it has been a year since the world went into battle. A year and a bit since talk of death, sight of coffins and graves en masse became a staple diet. Imagine. The Covid-19 vaccine programme will move faster than the inoculation of health workers who are receiving shots as part of a Johnson & Johnson implementation study, says the co-principal investigator of the study, professor Linda-Gail Bekker. In a move that will dramatically alter vaccine distribution, it is also being tested in the form of a tablet. "That will be a game-changer," said Biovac CEO Morena Makhoana. The currently approved Covid-19 vaccines all need to be stored at temperatures ranging from about -6°C to -70°C in the case of the Pfizer vaccine.