Traditional prime minister to the Zulu nation, Mangosuthu Buthelezi, described King Goodwill Zwelithini as a leader who spoke without fear or favour and whose long reign would be remembered as one of peace. In a moving tribute to the late Zulu monarch at his memorial service in at the KwaKhethomthandayo Royal Palace on Thursday, Buthelezi said: “We were blessed by his strength and boldness for he spoke without fear or favour. “What he spoke, he also did. When he told us to till our lands and plant our fields, he led by example. He told us to produce food so that our families would be fed and our communities survive. This showed great foresight, in the gathering storm of economic crisis. If it were not for him our king, our nation would be poorer.” Buthelezi said people in the Zulu kingdom had an “extraordinary element of security, for every family is able to access enough land to live on and produce food.” “Under his reign, the communal land of the Zulu Kingdom has fed and nurtured us. He fought for this security and as the servant of my King, I will continue that fight for whatever is left of my own life. Through him, traditional leadership remained strong, even under attack. “His commitment to his kingdom is beyond question, so too is his commitment to freedom and social justice. He championed education, he was an extraordinary philanthropist.” Buthelezi said the king formed bonds across cultures “embracing anyone who shared his vision and goals. There is mourning today among Indian people, Jewish people, Afrikaners and other ethnic groups.” Buthelezi said messages of condolences had poured in from “far and wide, remembering His Majesty for his wise leadership”. “Long before Covid our king championed the fight against HIV/Aids, reinstating some of our cultural practices and ceremonies. His Majesty, in other words, saved lives. Buthelezi said he was proud of King Zwelithini's “bold stand”, having lost children to HIV/Aids. He said the Zulu monarch had reigned through some of the most turbulent of times in SA's history. “He was always a king at war, and we his warriors were always in battle, whether we were fighting against poverty, whether we were fighting against ignorance or disease, or whether we were fighting  for social justice.” Buthelezi said King Zwelithini's reign would be remembered as one of peace and that was a legacy he was committed to preserving. “His Majesty our king has transitioned to higher service. The Zulu nation is still here, we are walking through the valley of grief, yet still we stand. “Among all our kings His Majesty's reign was the longest, God granted him longevity and reaped rewards. God also granted him wisdom, compassion, foresight and courage. His Majesty became the repository of the full history of our people. “All our traditions, culture, indigenous knowledge, systems of governance and social structures are expressed through our monarch. He carried this burden with dignity.” *In a previous version of this story, quotes from the official programme of the memorial service to King Goodwill Zwelithini were attributed to Prince Buthelezi. The error is sincerely regretted. TimesLIVE