A medical equipment supplier accused of charging excessive prices for examination gloves has supplied a government department — at no charge — with 49,400 surgical face masks to the same value as the estimated “excessive profits” it generated. This arrangement forms part of the terms of a consent agreement between the Competition Commission and Supra Healthcare Cape Town. Supra Healthcare is accused of having charged the Western Cape department of health excessive prices for gloves between May and June 2020 during the Covid-19 pandemic. On the wall of St. Joseph's Church hangs a black-and-white photograph with a caption remembering when the Italian parish of Seriate gave 270 people emergency “hospitality” last year — coffins of the dead from Covid-19, sometimes up to 40 at a time. South Korea's most populous province has ordered all of its foreign workers to be tested for Covid-19 by March 22, sparking complaints of long lines and logistical problems, as well as of implicit xenophobia in government messaging. Last week, Gyeonggi province issued a sweeping administrative order mandating all international workers be tested after at least 275 foreigners tested positive, many in outbreaks at manufacturing plants. Reuters Indonesia will delay the administering of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine due to reports of blood clots among some recipients in Europe and would await a review from the World Health Organization (WHO), its health minister said on Monday. The European Medicines Agency has said there is no indication that the events were caused by the vaccination, a view echoed Friday by the WHO, while AstraZeneca said on Sunday its review has shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots. Reuters The success of Covid-19 vaccines based on messenger RNA (mRNA) is smoothing the way for using the novel technology not only in other vaccines, but possibly as treatments for cystic fibrosis, cancer and other hard-to-treat diseases. Scientists say mRNA has the potential to target diseases that cannot be reached by conventional drugs. US emergency authorization of the vaccines - one from Moderna Inc and another from partners Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE – and their gene-based manufacturing processes has shown that the Food and Drug Administration is open to broader use of the previously unproven technology, according to interviews with eight top experts in the field of mRNA.Billions of dollars in capital have flowed into mRNA-focused companies based on these raised expectations – hundreds of millions in the last few months alone. And with FDA acceptance, the field is attracting top scientific talent, experts said. "There is more attention and focus on mRNA now that it has proven to be a technology that works," said Glenn Hunzinger, US  pharmaceutical and life sciences leader at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Reuters Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, said on Sunday he hopes former President Donald Trump will push his supporters to get the Covid-19 vaccine and emphasised that pandemic-related restrictions should not be lifted prematurely. US President Joe Biden will name Gene Sperling to lead implementation of the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan, one of the largest economic stimulus measures in American history, an administration official said on Sunday. ‘Planet Divoc-91’ aims to dispel myths about the virus and give young people access to professionals The tireless collection of Covid-19 data will be vital for our preparedness for the coming third wave