The launch in India of a new Covid-19 vaccine developed jointly by the Serum Institute of India and US-based biotech firm Novavax is likely to be delayed to September, the Indian company's boss said on Saturday. Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of Serum, said in January that the vaccine, named Corovax, was expected to be launched by June. On Saturday Poonawalla said the trials of Corovax had kicked off in India, but did not say why the vaccine launch was delayed. "It has been tested against African and UK variants of #COVID19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%," tweeted Poonawalla, whose Serum Institute is the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines. "Hope to launch by September 2021!" Poonawalla said earlier this month that a temporary US ban on exports of critical raw materials could limit the production of coronavirus vaccines such as Novavax. Reuters The Philippines will reimpose stricter quarantine measures in the capital Manila and nearby provinces, a senior official said on Saturday, as the country battles to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases that put a bigger strain on hospitals. Presidential spokesman Harry Roque said the measures would be in effect from March 29 to April 4. The health ministry on Saturday reported 9,595 new coronavirus cases, marking the second straight day the daily jump in infections remained above 9,000. The country posted a record rise in three of the past five days. Reuters The Eastern Cape, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal have had the highest proportion of deaths from Covid-19 cases to date, with case fatality rates exceeding the national in-hospital average of 22%. Wits epidemiology professor Cheryl Cohen said the case fatality rate varied by province and between the private and public health sectors. Provincial case fatality rates for hospitalised patients are as follows: Eastern Cape 32%, Limpopo 29%, Mpumalanga 25%, KwaZulu-Natal 24%, Free State 22%, Gauteng 20%, Northern Cape 19%, Western Cape 18% and North West 14%. The former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said he believes the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 likely escaped from a lab in Wuhan, China, embracing a theory rejected by many global epidemiologists that has contributed to tensions between China and the West. “I still think the most likely etiology of this pathogen in Wuhan was from a laboratory, you know, escaped,” Robert Redfield, who headed the CDC in the Trump administration, said in a televised interview with CNN. Facebook has frozen Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's page for violating policies against spreading misinformation about Covid-19 by promoting a remedy he claims, without evidence, can cure the disease, a company spokesperson said on Saturday. Maduro in January described Carvativir, an oral solution derived from thyme, as a “miracle” medication that neutralises the coronavirus with no side effects, a claim doctors say is not backed by science. India batting great Sachin Tendulkar said on Saturday he has contracted the novel coronavirus and has mild symptoms as infections continued to surge in the world's second-most populated country. Tendulkar, who will turn 48 next month, retired from the professional game in 2013 after notching a still unmatched 100 international centuries in a prolific 24-year career. "I have been testing myself and taking all the recommended precautions to ensure Covid is kept at bay. However, I have tested positive today following mild symptoms," Tendulkar said on his Twitter handle. India on Saturday reported 62,258 new infections, its highest since October, taking its tally to 11.91 million. The death toll rose by 291 to stand at 161,240. Tendulkar lives in Mumbai, the capital of the Western Indian state of Maharashtra which has been the hardest hit by a resurgence in cases. Reuters The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 20,472 to 2,755,225, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Saturday. The reported death toll rose by 157 to 75,780, the tally showed. Reuters Australia's Queensland state reported one new coronavirus case on Saturday linked to the highly contagious B117 UK mutant strain but authorities say the situation is not yet alarming. The infected man is a close contact of a 26-year-old male who tested positive on Friday. No other Australian state or territory has reported new cases of community transmission in recent days. Australia has reported more than 22,200 local Covid-19 cases and 909 deaths since March 2020. The country has ranked among the top 10 in a Covid performance index for its successful handling of the pandemic. Reuters Britain is close to striking a vaccine deal with the EU as soon as this weekend that will remove the threat of the bloc cutting off supplies, The Times reported on Saturday. Under the agreement the EU will remove its threat to ban the export of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines to Britain, it added. In return, the UK government will agree to forgo some long-term supplies of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that had been due to be exported from Holland, the newspaper reported. Reuters Brazil posted a record 3,650 new Covid-19 deaths on Friday, and the country also unveiled its first two domestically developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates for human trials, which although months away from use, should eventually help tame the pandemic. More than 300,000 have died from Covid-19 in Latin America's biggest country. It is the world's second highest total after the US, making Brazil the global epicentre of the outbreak due to a lack of federal restrictions, an infectious new variant and a patchy vaccine rollout. Friday's record death toll was the second this week, with a historic 100,158 new coronavirus cases on Thursday. Reuters