Support for EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has been rolling in after the police cleared him  of rape allegations, saying he was not the man being investigated  in the case. According to Daily Sun, a 23-year-old woman  alleged she was  raped by Ndlozi  in a Sandton penthouse. She allegedly named Ndlozi as the rape suspect in her police statement. However, Ndlozi denied he was at the Sandton penthouse and knowing the victim. He said the case was a “terrible instance of mistaken identity” and he would co-operate with authorities to clear his name. Gauteng police spokesperson Brig Mathapelo Peters said a rape case was  opened but Ndlozi “is not a suspect in this case”. "While police are not at liberty to disclose or confirm identities of victims/complainants and suspects, we can  confirm Dr Ndlozi is not a suspect in this case,” said Peters. She said the reporter  who wrote the Daily Sun  article did not seek police comment on the matter,  despite being advised to do so. Peters said the victim’s statement, a legal and confidential document, could only have been obtained through unlawful and unethical means. The EFF welcomed the police statement and said the allegations were  aimed at ruining Ndlozi’s reputation. “The leadership of the EFF is  aware of the coordinated attempts to criminalise leaders of the party through false allegations of crime, including rape allegations. “There are embedded elements in  the state working with the establishment and hellbent on linking EFF leadership to crimes because they think  this will prevent the unavoidable meteoric rise of the EFF to political power  in SA. We call on all leaders of the EFF to be on the alert because the enemy is out to get us,” said EFF spokesperson Vuyani Pambo. Pambo expressed concern about political battles being fought through rape and gender-based violence (GBV) allegations, saying the party will fight  to counter  unlawful and below-the-belt methods  in political battles. “The crisis of GBV and rape is a huge problem in SA and must never be used to fight political battles. Society as a whole should reject the nonsensical misuse of the struggle against GBV and rape for political battles. It is unacceptable and must stop,” he said. Daily Sun editor Mapula Nkosi said that the reporter did contact police, and was informed that the request for comment was sent to Peters, who the paper says didn't respond to the questions by the time of publication. Nkosi also defended its story. “In the statement, police confirm that a case of rape was opened as reported by Daily Sun. They also confirm that they are still investigating the case. Daily Sun stands by our story and condemns the attack by police on 'The People's Paper' and the journalist,” she said. On social media, EFF leader Julius Malema and his deputy  Floyd Shivambu were among those who defended Ndlozi. Socialite and friend Babalwa Mneno also defended Ndlozi and slammed those “twirling and twerking”  in “a smear campaign” against him. Here is a snapshot of some of the other reactions: