In the past year, there’s been a rise in untreated health-care conditions as people, wary of Covid-19 exposure, have avoided important trips to their doctor. Social distancing is still the norm, but when this means that you or your family are not getting the health-care attention you need, this measure may become counterproductive. Enter the TytoHome mobile medical device — an award-winning, mobile medical device made available in SA by Discovery Health, that enables a remotely guided virtual consultation with a doctor — from the comfort of your home. What is TytoHome and how does it work? TytoHome is a lightweight and portable medical exam kit that includes an examination camera, thermometer, otoscope and stethoscope. This allows users to capture clinical-grade images of the ear, throat and skin, as well as lung and heart auscultations, which they can seamlessly share with a doctor in our network in real time using the Connected Care platform on the Discovery website or app. Watch the video below: Using this data, the health-care provider can offer their patient a diagnosis, treatment plan and prescription if needed. The device is easy to use and your general practitioner (GP) will guide you through the consultation to get all the clinical images and sounds they need — making virtual consultations more accurate, and access to quality health care more convenient than ever. According to Dr Unben Pillay, a GP from Midrand and the CEO of Alliance of SA Independent Practitioners Association, the quality of images from TytoHome is probably better than what many health-care practitioners see in their practices using otoscopes or torches. He says the device will be game-changing for virtual consultations in the future. Find out more about TytoHome. Enabling a seamless, end-to-end digital health-care journey The best news is that TytoHome integrates fully into Discovery’s new Connected Care platform, available on www.discovery.co.za or the Discovery app, which connects Discovery Health Medical Scheme members with a range of appropriate home-based health-care services for all levels of care. From on-demand diagnostic consultations and e-scripting, to medicine delivery and more. Watch the video below: If you prefer a virtual consultation, a TytoHome device can enable high-quality health care through remote examination. This makes it especially helpful when treating common or chronic medical conditions, which — with frequent monitoring — can be safely, conveniently and effectively treated from home. Discovery Health Medical Scheme, registration number 1125, is regulated by the Council for Medical Schemes and administered by Discovery Health (Pty) Ltd, registration number 1997/013480/07, an authorised financial services provider. This article was paid for by Discovery Health.