US calls for pause to J&J Covid-19 vaccine over rare blood clots US federal health agencies on Tuesday recommended pausing the use of Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine after six recipients developed a rare disorder involving blood clots, in a fresh setback to global efforts to tackle the pandemic. The move comes a week after European regulators said they had found a possible link between AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine and a rare blood clotting problem that had led to a small number of deaths. 'Extremely low' number of Covid-19 patients in Netcare hospitals The number of Covid-19 patients at what was Durban's busiest private hospital since the start of the pandemic is “extremely low”. A source told TimesLIVE that the last Covid-19 patient at St Augustine's Hospital was discharged on Thursday. Netcare hospital division MD Jacques du Plessis said Covid-19 admissions at all the group's hospitals were low. Russia reports 8,173 new COVID-19 cases, 338 deaths Russia reported 8,173 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, including 1,782 in Moscow, taking the official national tally to 4,657,883. The government coronavirus task force said 338 people had died in the past 24 hours, pushing its death toll to 103,601. The federal statistics agency, which keeps a separate count has reported a much higher toll of more than 225,000 from April 2020 to February. -REUTERS No blood clots seen in SA vaccinations No cases of very rare blood clots have been detected in SA health-care workers who have received the J&J Covid-19 vaccine under the Sisonke implementation study, the co-principal investigator Prof Glenda Gray said on Monday night. By April 12, 289,787 health-care workers had been vaccinated in the first phase of SA’s Covid-19 vaccination programme, according to health minister Zweli Mkhize. The European Medicines Agency’s safety committee is reviewing four cases of extraordinary and serious blood blots — out of nearly five million vaccinations — which have been seen after the J&J jab in the US. Regeneron drug proves effective in preventing Covid-19 Regeneron is pursuing US approval for its Covid-19 monoclonal antibody cocktail as a preventive treatment after it helped cut the risk of symptomatic infections in households where someone else is ill, the US drugmaker said on Monday. REGEN-COV, a combination of casirivimab and imdevimab, protected household contacts from exposure to SARS-CoV-2, with 72% protection against symptomatic infections in the first week, and 93% after that, according to trial data released by the company. Continental leaders and health officials call for expanding vaccine production as Africa struggles to acquire coronavirus vaccines, depending majorly on imports for medicines and medical equipment. Despite its sprawling geography and often-inhospitable climate, Alaska ranks among the top U.S. states for getting Covid-19 vaccines into the arms of its residents, and its indigenous population has played a major role in that achievement. Regeneron is pursuing US approval for its Covid-19 monoclonal antibody cocktail as a preventative treatment. Universities are forced to change tack as Covid-19 infections surge among students and staff Relax when outdoors, say experts, with Irish analysis revealing that only one in 1,000 infections is acquired outside