Beaches were packed across Catalonia on Saturday as fine spring weather attracted sunseekers despite government warnings to avoid breaching COVID-19 restrictions. In Barcelona, Tarragona and other popular cities along the coast of the northeastern Spanish region, crowds gathered on the beaches, some lacking masks or ignoring social distancing. On a popular beach near central Barcelona dozens of partygoers had danced on Friday, some flouting regulations designed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, police said on Saturday. The impromptu party took place on Barceloneta beach and police said they had advised revellers they were breaking health regulations." Barcelona is the perfect place to party, to drink, but this is a big problem - the police - they are stopping people enjoying themselves," a British reveller who gave only his first name Liam, 32, and who was wearing a mask, told Reuters. Elsewhere police raided an illegal party at a bar in Sant Feliu de Llobregat, near Barcelona, on Friday, and fined 33 people for breaching Covid-19 restrictions, the Mossos d'Escuadra, the Catalan regional police, tweeted. Reuters Britain reported 10 deaths from COVID-19 within 28 days of a positive test on Saturday, the lowest daily figure since early September, and 3,423 new cases. Official data also showed 31,301,267 people had received their first shot of a Covid vaccine. Reuters Covid-19 vaccines will arrive in Syria within days from China, Russia and the World Health Organisation, the prime minister said, according to state news agency SANA. The vaccines will be administered "according to a clear system", the report said without giving further details. Reuters The U.S. administered a record-breaking 20 million coronavirus vaccine doses in one week. As vaccination efforts ramp up, the CDC has new travel guidance for those who are fully vaccinated. But as Omar Villafranca reports, that good news comes with a warning. Dr. Len Horovitz, a pulmonary specialist at Lenox Hill Hospital, joins CBSN to break down the latest. More than 400 hospital staff and their families have been forced to spend Easter in isolation after potential exposure to Covid-19 at the Princess Alexandra Hospital. US coronavirus task force response coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx said that the US and other countries could have had a stronger initial response to Covid-19 if China had been more forthcoming about key features of the virus. Australia will continue its inoculation programme with AstraZeneca PLC, health officials said on Saturday, after a blood clotting case raised concern about the safety of the vaccine. Several Covid-19 vaccine developers, including Pfizer Inc, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc, plan to issue a public pledge not to seek government approval until their vaccine candidates are proven to be safe and effective, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday. The companies would pledge to adhere to high scientific and ethical standards in the conduct of clinical studies and in their manufacturing processes, the Journal report  said, citing the draft of a joint statement that is still being finalized. The companies might issue the pledge as soon as early next week, the report added, citing two people familiar with the matter. Reuters Moderna is the latest company to test whether its Covid-19 vaccine is weakened by what’s become known as the SA variant but is more technically known as the B. 1.351 variant. Since vaccine development against Covid-19 began, efforts have been undermined by the variant’s mutations in the spike protein. US coronavirus task force response coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx said that the United States and other countries could have had a stronger initial response to Covid-19 if China had been more forthcoming about key features of the virus. At a panel held by the Atlantic Council, a US think tank, Birx said the United States would have been more focused on identifying Covid-19 patients without symptoms if China has shared information about the frequency with which Covid-19 patients, particularly young people, are asymptomatic. "I have to say if we had known about the level of asymptomatic spread, we would have all looked at this differently," Birx said at the panel. "That’s usually the initial countries’ responsibility ... and I think that did delay across the board our ability to really see or look for this."Birx said that public health officials had originally assumed that only 15 to 20% of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic when in fact that number is at least 40%."We were looking for people with symptoms. Reuters The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Friday said people who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 can safely travel at “low risk” but still discouraged Americans from doing so because of high coronavirus cases nationwide.