J&J jabs expected to resume this week Prof Glenda Gray, co-principal investigator of the Sisonke implementation study, which is providing health-care workers with Covid-19 J&J vaccines, said on Monday morning the suspension of the inoculations is expected to be lifted soon. The vaccinations were paused by the SA Health Products Regulatory Authority (Sahpra) on Tuesday night last week, the same day the US Food and Drug Administration paused its J&J rollout because of extremely rare and severe blood clots detected in six out of 6.8 million Americans vaccinated. Gray said the Sisonke team had sent Sahpra its updated protocols. These include steps for more rigorous screening and monitoring of participants at risk of blood clotting disorders, and enhanced safety measures. India's Delhi to lock down for six days as COVID-19 outbreak worsens The Indian capital New Delhi will be under a strict lockdown for six days starting on Monday night, the city's Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, adding the healthcare system was at a breaking point because of the worsening COVID-19 outbreak. The city was also facing acute shortages of hospital beds, medical oxygen supplies and key medicines such as the anti-viral Remdesivir, Kejriwal said. -REUTERS British scientists on Monday launched a trial which will deliberately expose participants who have already had Covid-19 to the coronavirus again to examine immune responses and see if people get reinfected. French President Emmanuel Macron said France is finalizing plans to ease restrictions for US vaccinated travelers. Australia is in no hurry to reopen its international borders and risk the country’s nearly coronavirus-free lifestyle, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said. After a year of remote learning and socially distanced classrooms, one school in Spain is adapting to a new way of teaching – moving lessons to the beach India's daily Covid-19 cases rise by record 273,810 India reported a record rise in coronavirus infections of 273,810 on Monday, taking its overall case load past 15 million, second only to the United States globally. The country's deaths from COVID-19 rose by a record 1,619 to reach a total of 178,769, according to health ministry data. -REUTERS