Eli Lilly and Co said on Friday it had requested the US Food and Drug Administration to revoke the emergency use authorization granted to its Covid-19 antibody bamlanivimab alone due to the full availability of its combination therapy. An Italian prosecutor has accused the World Health Organization (WHO) of hindering efforts to investigate allegations that Italy failed to prepare adequately for the coronavirus pandemic. Prosecutors in the northern city of Bergamo, the epicentre of the deadly outbreak of Covid-19 in 2020, are also looking into accusations that WHO officials helped the Italian health ministry cover up its alleged shortcomings. "Up until now we have just been met with a rubber wall," prosecutor Maria Cristina Rota told Reuters. WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier denied that the United Nations agency was obstructing justice. Reuters Business for SA (B4SA) has mobilised private sector resources to vaccinate about 163,000 people a day. This will be done at pharmacies, employer occupational health sites, large-scale sites developed by medical schemes, general practitioners, private hospitals and mass vaccination sites. The US is preparing for the possibility that a booster shot will be needed between nine to 12 months after people are initially vaccinated against Covid-19, a White House official said. The number of new Covid-19 cases per week has nearly doubled globally over the past two months, approaching the highest rate seen so far during the pandemic, the head of the World Health Organisation said on Friday. "Cases and deaths are continuing to increase at worrying rates," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a briefing. Reuters Health minister Zweli Mkhize says the coronavirus vaccine registration portal will be opened on Friday afternoon to all citizens who are 60 and older, as government prioritises those who are most at risk of getting sick or dying of Covid-19. Many Africans who have received their first Covid-19 vaccine do not know when they will get a second shot because deliveries are delayed, the continent's top public health official said on Thursday. “We cannot predict when the second doses will come and that is not good for our vaccination programme,” John Nkengasong, the head of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), told reporters on Thursday. Africa lags behind most other regions in Covid-19 vaccinations, with just less than 14 million doses having been administered on the continent of 1.3 billion, according to the Africa CDC.Ghana, for example, has administered around 742,000 doses of the 815,000 shots it has so far received and will run out by the end of next week. "Even if Ghana had the money, they will not know where to go get the vaccine, that’s the challenge," said Nkengasong.So far, the majority of the vaccines available in African countries have been delivered via the World Health Organization-backed COVAX facility. COVAX aims to deliver 600 million shots to some 40 African countries this year, enough to vaccinate 20% of their populations. Reuters Top infectious-diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci said that he hopes regulators will soon decide on the pause of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, and that a prolonged delay could impact vaccine hesitancy in general. Japan is set to expand quasi-emergency measures to 10 regions on Friday as a fourth wave of Covid-19 cases spreads, casting more doubt on whether the Summer Olympics can be held in Tokyo in less than 100 days. Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura told reporters the government was considering adding Aichi, Kanagawa, Saitama, and Chiba to six other prefectures already under the orders, including the cities of Tokyo and Osaka. A final decision is expected on Friday afternoon. Japan's top health experts have acknowledged that the Covid-19 pandemic has entered a fourth wave. Daily cases in Osaka reached a record 1,208 on Thursday, driven by a virulent British strain of the virus. New infections rose to 729 in Tokyo, the most since early February when most of the nation was under a state of emergency. A senior ruling party official said on Thursday that cancelling this year's Olympics remains an option if the coronavirus situation becomes too dire Reuters The number of people to be vaccinated in SA with Pfizer BioNTech's double-shot vaccines has increased from 10 to 15 million. Health minister Zweli Mkhize announced that SA had secured an additional 10 million Covid-19 Pfizer vaccines this week. Speaking in parliament, Mkhize told the health portfolio committee the addition will increase the total amount of the vaccine in SA to 30 million shots. In Africa, 7.2 million people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 and 28 countries have received 16 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine by Thursday, says Africa CDC director Dr John Nkengasong. Africa had 4.1 million cases of Covid and 110,000 deaths at the time of the weekly briefing. New infections are stable overall, decreasing by 1% on average over the past month although rising again in East Africa. Our lives are in their hands, so when healthcare workers are exposed to Covid-19, everyone’s threatened. Data from the Western Cape show a markedly improved situation compared with a few months ago, however, and the tide seems to be turning regarding infections and vaccines. South Africa’s youth are being called on to pursue healthcare skills and professions as the country is projected to head towards a shortage of skilled health workers. The call is being driven by the Health and Welfare Sector Education and Training Authority (HWSETA). It has launched a career portal aimed at informing learners about how to pursue health, social development and veterinary-related careers in the country. The AZ and J&J vaccines will remain pivotal to continent’s plan to stop Covid-19, says director