If you’re planning to take a road trip for a short holiday, make sure your car is in top-notch condition, ready for the road and safe to drive. Here’s what you need to consider before starting your journey. Driving with worn or damaged tyres can increase your odds of having an accident. Of all the different parts of your vehicle, tyres have direct contact with the road you’re travelling on. The quality of your car’s tyres and the grip they provide makes all the difference when it comes to making sure your journey is as safe as possible. Your car’s tyres need to: Common problems to look out for when assessing your car’s tyres: 1. Worn tyres 2. Tyre pressure 3. Irregularities Read more about when, why and how to change a tyre. An all-round check with Tiger Wheel & Tyre Discovery Insure Vitality Drive clients have the benefit of being able to visit their nearest Tiger Wheel & Tyre for an annual multipoint check. The assessment ensures that your vehicle is roadworthy and ready for your next journey. Specialists will assess your car’s steering wheel, headlights, hooter, tyres, indicators, shocks, windscreen wipers and seat belts. The assessment will also determine the overall condition of your car and cross-check for any irregularities or missing parts. Not only are you making sure your car is safe to drive, you also increase your fuel rewards and earn Vitality Drive points. Read more about the assessment, fuel rewards and points you can earn. Fund a portion of your new tyres with your Insure Funder account Depending on your Vitality Drive status, you can fund up to 100% of your new tyres purchased at Tiger Wheel & Tyre using your Insure Funder account. Your Insure Funder account is a designated account where you can have your fuel rewards doubled by having them paid into it. This account will accumulate rewards over time and you will then be able to use this amount to fund up to 100% of the invoice amount of your new tyres. You also qualify for up to 20% off Tiger Wheel & Tyre purchases, depending on your Vitality Drive status, making your new tyres even more affordable. Learn more about the Tiger Wheel & Tyre rewards benefit. This article was paid for by Discovery Insure.