Nomachule [Norma] Mngoma, the estranged wife of former minister Malusi Gigaba, may appear before the commission investigating allegations of state capture on Monday, just two weeks after she withdrew her voluntary participation from the inquiry. The commission announced on Sunday that an evening session has been scheduled to hear Malusi Gigaba’s application for leave to cross-examine Nomachule Gigaba and to also hear evidence  from Nomachule Gigaba on Gupta-related evidence. Mngoma's appearance will depend on how the chairperson of the commission, deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo, rules in Malusi Gigaba's application. Just before the commission adjourned on Friday, evidence leader advocate Anton Myburgh said: “In the evening, we will first have Mr Gigaba's application in relation to Ms Gigaba's evidence, and obviously subject to what you may or may not rule, Ms Gigaba might give evidence after that”. Just days before Mngoma pulled out of giving testimony, it emerged that Malusi had applied to the commission to suppress as inadmissible her evidence, or alternatively hear it behind closed doors. In his application, Gigaba  argued that the evidence is either fabricated or speculative and will, if heard in public, impact on the dignity of his minor children. Mngoma, who indicated her keenness to appear before Zondo, during a TV interview last December made an 11th hour U-turn earlier this month, withdrawing from testifying at the commission. At the time she claimed, through her lawyer, that the commission had mishandled her matter. A disappointed Zondo, agreed with the commission's legal team that summons should be issued to force her to testify. In an interview with eNCA last December, Mngoma alleged that Gigaba received money from the controversial Gupta family to maintain their lavish lifestyle. “They used to give him a lot of money but I don’t know what they were giving him money for. Sometimes he used to say that he did favours for them [the Guptas] so then they will give him money. But it was a lot of cash, all the time. “He used to use that money for different things like for his lifestyle, to build his home and also give it to his sister ... Even our wedding and honeymoon. So they were always there to help financially, all the time,” she said. TimesLIVE