An American version of the format familiar to South African fans of Leon Schuster. Best-friend comedians Eric Andre and Lil Rel Howery rope unsuspecting people into a series of cringe-inducing real-life candid camera pranks. The set-up doesn't reinvent the comedy wheel but is often funnier than you'd think — and the camaraderie between its stars is hard to resist. Where to stream it: Netflix How much time you'll need to binge it: 90 minutes Turkish director Reba Erdem takes the anxieties, frustration and technical limitations of life under lockdown in Istanbul and turns them into a funny, heart-warming piece of musical comedy that tells the story of nine interlocking characters caught up in a madcap con scheme. It's clever, filmed entirely using lockdown visual communication formats, and pays uplifting homage to the city and its eccentric, street-smart residents. Where to stream it: mubi.com How much time you'll need to binge it: 90 minutes A well-told, well-acted if sometimes sugary-sweet father and son story. Starring Stranger Things' Caleb McLaughlin as a troubled Detroit teenager sent off to live with his estranged father (Idris Elba) who runs the legendary urban stables that are home to the black cowboys of Philadelphia. There our young, adrift protagonist learns things he didn't know about his father and horses that will offer him a new perspective and purpose in life. Where to stream it: Netflix How much time you'll need to binge it: 2 hours An adult animated series based on the cult comic book, this is a mostly smart, often violent and consistently entertaining series that follows the trials and tribulations of a headstrong teenager whose dad just happens to be the most powerful superhero in the world. New episodes are added weekly. Where to stream it: Amazon Prime Video How much time you'll need to binge it: 3 hours Yet another mining of the Conan Doyle archive, this adventure fantasy series focuses on the Baker Street Irregulars, street-smart tough teens living on the margins of Victorian society who are enlisted to help out the great detective Sherlock Holmes. Mixing heavy doses of the supernatural with a healthy disregard for the realities of the original tales' Victorian social mores, it's all very preposterous yet suitably entertaining on its own mixed-up, genre-mashing, spectacle-over-substance terms. Where to stream it: Netflix How much time you'll need to binge it: 4 hours