Andile Gova, an expatriate nurse at The Johns Hopkins Hospital in Maryland in the US who received his first dose of the Moderna vaccine on December 21, said he was kept for 15 minutes for medical observation before he was allowed to go home. Gova, originally from Port Elizabeth, told Sowetan yesterday about his experiences when he took the shot, which is being rolled out to health workers in the US. “I chose to go to a pharmacy because they are independent and I didn't want a biased opinion. I was given a booklet with a list of ingredients used to manufacture the Moderna vaccine to check if I was allergic to any of them. The most popular municipal Muslim cemetery in Cape Town has run out of space due to Covid-19. The City of Cape Town said it had allocated extra space for 837 Muslim burials at Maitland cemetery after Klip Road cemetery in Grassy Park filled up. In a statement, the council said it was working with the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) to increase burial capacity at the remaining 10 municipal cemeteries with a Muslim allotment. Cape Town also has private Muslim cemeteries. Tributes are being shared after the death of agricultural policy influencer Prof Mohammad Karaan on Wednesday. Western Cape agriculture minister Ivan Meyer said he had succumbed to symptoms of Covid-19. He described Karaan as an academic and thought leader on agriculture. “His death is a massive loss for the academic and agricultural community in SA. With the arts and entertainment industry being one of the hardest hit sectors by the Covid-19 pandemic, Prince Kaybee believes that some artists may never recover from the financial blow. As cases and deaths continue to soar, many South Africans face job losses amid fearing for their lives. They include artists and musicians, whose pockets have been hit hard due to Covid-19 restrictions on social gatherings. “Unfortunately some artists are going to lose momentum to an extent they might never make it back financially after this pandemic,” Kaybee said. China reported its biggest jump in Covid-19 cases in more than 10 months as infections in northeastern Heilongjiang province nearly tripled, underscoring the growing threat ahead of a major national holiday when hundreds of millions of people usually travel. Aggressive containment measures including lockdowns, travel curbs and mass screenings have helped China bring cases down to a fraction of what it saw at the height of the pandemic in early 2020. But the country has yet to be able to completely stamp out the disease, which has now killed nearly 2 million worldwide, even as Covid-19 vaccinations have begun. The National Health Commission (NHC) said in a statement that 138 new Covid-19 cases were reported on January 13, up from 115 cases a day earlier and marking the highest jump since March 5. China also reported one new death, the first increase in the death toll since mid-May. Rapper and producer AKA has hit back at critics for labelling him a Covid-19 conspiracy theorist. Though AKA is usually on the TL for the banter, the Bhovamania star also takes the opportunity to share his opinions on worldly matters such as the coronavirus pandemic. Recently, the “Supa Mega” took to Twitter with some controversial thoughts on the pandemic. The star questioned whether asymptomatic carriers actually had the virus in the first place. Officially, about 2,000 teachers have died of Covid-19. Think about that. Let us assume that it took four years to train each of them, the basic duration of an education degree (BED) or a three-year general Bachelor’s degree, with an additional year of teacher training (PGCE). Older teachers might hold a certificate of two or three years, but consider that washed out by the many hours of in-service teacher training during the course of a career. So four years it is, and for 2,000 teachers that means these deaths count as 8,000 years of teacher training lost in one year because of the pandemic. For an education planner, that staggering loss of teaching expertise is a disaster; for the families of the deceased, the loss is an unfathomable tragedy. Should schools reopen as scheduled? In a heart-rending story first reported by the Los Angeles Times, children were found apologising to their elders who were dying in hospital beds. The youngsters brought the virus home. Last time I wrote about a friend who had heart-transplant surgery and whose wife was an active teacher. Well, he is now ashes. But our department of basic education is steaming ahead to reopen schools on January 25, regardless of the human toll. The AU has secured a provisional 270 million Covid-19 vaccine doses from manufacturers for member states to supplement the COVAX programme, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday. African nations are grappling with a second wave of the novel coronavirus, infections rising to at least 3.1 million and 74,600 deaths over the course of the pandemic, according to a Reuters tally. The vaccines will be supplied by Pfizer, AstraZeneca, through the Serum Institute of India, and Johnson & Johnson, said Ramaphosa, who chairs the AU. He added that all 270 million doses would be made available this year, with at least 50 million available “for the crucial period of April to June 2021". “We just want people to share the correct information — that will save lives.” This is according to Musawenkosi Buthelezi, spokesperson for the ANC Youth League's Gauteng Crisis Committee, which is calling for the “immediate arrest” of youth league compatriots who shared false information on Covid-19. In posters being shared widely on social media, the ANCYL's greater Tshwane region poster claims — falsely — that there were “Covid-19 fighting pH foods”, including bananas, lemons, avocado, pineapple watercress, pineapple and garlic.