Collagen has been a buzz word in the beauty space for a while now, and is loved for its ability to boost hydration in the skin and give it a plump, youthful appearance. As collagen production levels in your skin start to slowly decrease from your late 20s, supplementing by way of facial serums or drinkable formulations is essential for maintaining a youthful complexion for longer. Most collagen products on the market are derived from animal sources, but with the general movement towards wellness-focused and sustainable lifestyle choices, the demand for plant-based, vegan products is on the rise. That's why I was excited to try Gold Vegan Collagen when it launched in SA. Finally there was a collagen supplement that was in line with my belief system of being completely plant-based. Here's the low down: What is Gold Collagen Vegan? It's a liquid collagen supplement that combines 28 active ingredients, which include 100% plant-based proteins like Rice Peptides, as well as vitamins C and B12, plus iron and zinc. Each daily dose is packaged in an individual 50ml recyclable glass bottle; there are 10 doses in a package. It's available in a pomegranate, blueberry and cherry flavour, which meant I really had no problem taking it. It's been a hassle-free addition to my daily routine. What does it do? Gold Collagen Vegan works to promote healthy hair, skin and nails as well as contributing to energy, immunity and general wellbeing. How much is it? R1,320 for a 10-day programme. It's available via skinmiles.com What happened when I tried it? Because of the dry climate in Jozi, my skin would normally be extremely tight, flaky and dry. After using Gold Collagen Vegan for a month, the hydration of my skin has vastly improved. My face now has a natural, healthy, youthful glow. It also looks and feels plump, which is helpful for those pesky fine lines. In addition, my nails are growing faster and are not as brittle. Most importantly, I feel healthy and energised without having that 3pm crash. Tips for use? It is recommended that you allow for a full 90-day period to feel the benefits and experience longer-lasting results.