The World Health Organization (WHO) is underpowered and underfunded, and must be reformed to give it the resourcing to be more effective, according to an independent panel reviewing the WHO and the global response to the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are not here to assign blame, but to make concrete recommendations to help the world respond faster and better in future," the panel's co-chair Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, told reporters on a briefing on Tuesday, a day after the panel's interim report was issued ."I do believe that WHO is reformable," she said. —Reuters Private schools Curro and Helpmekaar Kollege in Braamfontein have migrated to online learning after the basic education department announced on Friday its decision to delay schools reopening by two weeks. The delay, which affects public and private schools, will help minimise the movement of people and ease the influx of Covid-19 patients in hospitals, said the department. Here's a timeline of how we got here: WATCH | Spoofs on Covid-19 vaccine 'effects' spark viral social media trend Conspiracy theories around the Covid-19 vaccines have sparked a global viral social media trend joking about the “effects” of the vaccines. President Cyril Ramaphosa recently announced that SA has secured 20 million doses of the vaccine which will be delivered during the first half of the year.  The health ministry said on Monday the country would also get nine million doses from Johnson & Johnson. However, social media and messaging apps have been filled with “warnings” about the vaccines and false information about possible effects. Eskom operations 'disrupted' as 48 contractors test positive for Covid-19 Power utility Eskom says Covid-19 has affected its operations at the Medupi power station, where 48 of 75 contractors have tested positive for the coronavirus. “Despite Eskom's stringent measures to manage the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the operations, we are experiencing some impact on operations, including our suppliers,” the company said in a statement. “For example, at the Medupi power station we have 48 positive cases out of a pool of 75 contractors, which has negatively affected our ability to execute work as planned.” Previous coronavirus infection may offer less protection from new variant Previous infection with the coronavirus may offer less protection against the new variant first identified in SA, scientists said on Monday, though they hope that vaccines will still work. Studies also found that the new variant binds more strongly and readily to human cells. That helps explain why it seems to be spreading around 50% quicker than previous versions, leading SA epidemiologist Salim Abdool Karim said. The 501Y.V2 variant was identified by SA genomics experts late last year. It has been the main driver of a second wave of national Covid-19 infections, which hit a new daily peak above 21,000 cases earlier this month. Why prisoners are a priority in vaccine rollout Who should be vaccinated against Covid-19 first? While in the main this question is a public health one, it has become a moral and political contentious issue, not just in SA but also in the rest of the world. Whereas there seems to be no question that front-line health workers must be the first group to receive the vaccine, the inclusion or exclusion of incarcerated people in the next phase has sparked controversy. Minister of health Zweli Mkhize publicly announced the government’s strategy on the vaccine rollout on January 3. He said the government’s target was to vaccinate 67% of the population to achieve herd immunity through a phased vaccine rollout that will start with the most vulnerable in society. 'Businesses need every hour to keep their doors open': Cape Town calls for a change in curfew time The City of Cape Town has written to co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma asking for the current national curfew to be pushed back to 11pm. Mayoral committee member for economic opportunities and asset management, Alderman James Vos, said a later starting time for the curfew may “save what is left of the hospitality sector”. SA's glass packagers face R1.5bn hit from alcohol ban — Consol SA's glass packaging industry could lose a further R1.5bn in sales if the latest ban on alcohol sales continues for long, the CEO of glass bottle maker Consol said on Monday. SA has recently banned alcohol sales for the third time as part of efforts to free up space for Covid-19 patients in hospitals burdened with alcohol-related injuries. The first two bans together resulted in losses of more than R1.5bn to the glass packaging industry, Consol CEO Mike Arnold said in an e-mailed response to questions. SA to get 9 million Johnson & Johnson vaccine shots — health ministry SA, which has yet to receive its first coronavirus vaccine doses, will be getting 9 million from Johnson & Johnson, the health ministry said on Monday. The government of Africa's most advanced economy is trying to secure enough Covid-19 vaccines after health workers and scientists criticised it for not moving fast enough to inoculate its people. The country has recorded more than 1.3 million infections and more than 37,000 deaths related to the virus, the most in Africa. Don't call it the 'SA variant', scientists and researchers plead A group of South African and international scientists have taken a strong stand against calling 501. V2, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 spreading like wildfire across the country, “the South African variant”. Top researchers, who have delved into the variant for the benefit of all, say that it could have begun in any country, and could appear in any country, and labelling it “the South African variant” just because of the country’s in-depth analysis of the variant, is unjust and damaging. Seven matric markers die of Covid, 308 test positive while ‘serving the nation’ The department of basic education has confirmed that six matric markers have died of Covid-related complications, while 308 tested positive at marking centres and were sent home. However, in a statement on Monday afternoon, the Gauteng education department said that a second marker had died in the province - taking the national total to seven. The department informed teacher unions at a meeting on Saturday that three of those who died were from KwaZulu-Natal and one each from Gauteng, Limpopo and a department of basic education marking centre. This did not include the second Gauteng death. 'I'll have the vaccine as soon as it's available to me': Desmond Tutu Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu has vowed to be vaccinated against Covid-19 “as soon as one becomes available”. In a statement the Desmond and Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation issued on Monday, Tutu said it was vital that people took the vaccine. “Covid-19 has wreaked havoc. It has destroyed lives and livelihoods and it has robbed us of the comfort of family and friends, but we can stop it. We have vaccines. I join many other world leaders in pledging to have a vaccine against Covid-19 as soon as one becomes available to me. Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm