January 13 2021 - 09:50 Home affairs will offer limited services during level 3 - here's what you need to know Home affairs minister Aaron Motsoaledi announced on Tuesday that the department will offer limited services to the public for the duration of lockdown level 3. He was speaking during a media briefing by the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) on the newly amended regulations. The briefing comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Monday that SA would remain on alert level 3 with some changes to the restrictions, including the closure of land borders and the curfew in place from 9pm to 5am. January 13 2021 - 08:44 Covid-19 peaks could overwhelm capabilities of health facilities: expert The problem facing SA is preventing a surge in the number of Covid-19 infections which could overwhelm hospitals in Gauteng, a health and social security systems specialist has warned. Speaking to SAFM on Wednesday, Prof Alex van den Heever of the Wits School of Governance said the number of Covid-19 infections in the second wave is higher than during the first surge last year. “Our problem is preventing the peaks we are seeing. The peaks are higher than they were in the first surge. January 13 2021 - 07:41 SA's booze industry seeks tax relief after new sales ban SA’s alcohol industry, reeling under a renewed liquor sales and distribution ban since the end of December, on Tuesday called for a deferment of excise duty to stave off a wave of business closures and job losses. President Cyril Ramaphosa extended an existing countrywide ban on alcohol sales and distribution on Monday, saying it has helped to reduce trauma cases in hospitals and keep staff and facilities available for Covid-19 patients. January 13 2021 - 07:00 The DA wants another round of UIF Ters payments for businesses as SA remains on alert level 3 The DA has called for the return of UIF Ters payments for the duration of the alert level 3 lockdown, saying the fund will provide assistance to businesses whose operations continue to be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. This after president Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Monday that SA would remain on level 3 to mitigate the spread of Covid-19. The liquor industry is among the hardest hit as the ban of sales of alcohol remain intact. This, said the president, will help ensure that there are no trauma cases in hospitals and will ease the pressure on the health system. "We believe it is going to get worse," says home affairs minister as department is inundated with applications for death certificates