Here's how to pay for Covid-19 vaccine without hiking tax: Economists The government should raise funds by other means, such as selling some of the state-owned enterprises, before considering raising taxes to fund the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines. This is the view of two economists in reaction to a report that the National Treasury is considering a range of possible funding mechanisms to pay for the biggest vaccination drive in SA's history. Treasury director-general Dondo-Mogajane told Business Day it was exploring potential financing options for Covid-19 vaccines, including raising taxes, widening the budget deficit and reprioritising government spending. The department of health has estimated a maximum cost of R20bn to vaccinate the entire country, while more recent internal estimates done by the Treasury are far lower than this, the newspaper said. Poor forced to pay R120 to access R350 social grant A R120 chunk of the R350 Nomangesi Ndwayana and Nandile Ngemntu will each receive from the Covid-19 social relief of distress grant will go to pay the driver who transported them 50km from Peddie to Makhanda, in the Eastern Cape, to queue outside the post office. The two travelled 50km from their village, arriving at 3am, only to find people already queuing. “We do have a post office in Peddie town,” said Ndwayana. “But the challenge is that all the people from the rural villages [118 villages, according to the Ngqushwa municipality website] here are served by one post office. You can just imagine all those villagers coming together to a single post office. That is the reason we decided to come to Grahamstown [Makhanda] because they have a few post offices here to help people.” Gauteng hospitals overrun as Covid-19 cases skyrocket Gauteng’s major hospitals have come under strain as the number of Covid-19 patients who need care continues to rise. Though the number of infections appeared to decline marginally nationally, the figures have continued to fluctuate, and admissions at some Gauteng hospitals are increasing. Tax increases to pay for Covid-19 vaccine under consideration — report As the government’s efforts to secure supplies of Covid-19 vaccines find growing success, the Treasury is considering raising taxes as one of several possible mechanisms to fund the biggest vaccination drive in SA’s history. Treasury director-general Dondo Mogajane said the government viewed Covid-19 vaccines as a public good and was committed to financing their rollout, with or without support from the private sector and medical schemes. SA mulls expunging criminal records of lockdown offenders, but not for multiple offenders Government is considering expunging the criminal records of people who have violated lockdown regulations, but will not do this yet because it wants to enforce rules in place intended to curb the spread of Covid-19. Tens of thousands of people have criminal records since the state of disaster was enacted almost a year ago. Police minister Bheki Cele’s spokesperson Lirandzu Themba said on Friday more than 342,000 people have been arrested for violations of lockdown regulations since the start of the lockdown in March last year. She said most of those arrested received fines while others were released on warning. Man arrested for selling liquor in defiance of lockdown regulations Three weeks after lockdown regulations were promulgated banning the sale of liquor, police in Kimberley arrested a 63-year-old man for selling alcohol from his house at inflated prices. Northern Cape police members acted on a tip-off and arrested the man for illegally dealing in liquor and flouting the adjusted level 3 Covid-19 regulations. “He had no valid liquor trading licence nor a licence to operate a tavern from his house in Beaconsfield,” said police spokesperson Capt Olebogeng Tawana. Restaurants raided for serving alcohol during lockdown ban, booze confiscated Police arrested the managers of two popular restaurants in Sandton and Silverton for selling liquor to patrons during the prohibition on booze sales under Covid -19 adjusted level 3 lockdown regulations. A restaurant in West Street in Sandton, Gauteng, was on Saturday found to be “full to capacity and openly serving alcohol at the tables”, said police. Health protocols were not being observed. Two of the restaurant’s managers were arrested and charged with contravention of the Disaster Management Act. In awe: Compassionate hospital staff who come to work despite Covid risk hailed A towel over his head at 3.35am to prevent him seeing the chaos of a Covid-ravaged hospital. But Power FM’s Denzil Taylor knew he was one of the lucky ones as he was pushed through along a corridor of Flora Clinic in a wheelchair to a vacant bed. “The doctor said, OK, we have a bed for you,” Taylor told TimesLIVE. He had been waiting at a ‘Covid Point’ in an emergency ward, exhausted with all the classic symptoms of Covid-19, and asked himself how a bed had suddenly become available at that time. “There’s only one answer to that,” he said. Somebody must have died. ‘We can’t afford to disinfect our taxis without Covid-19 relief funds’ - Limpopo operators Limpopo taxi operators say they are not able to regularly disinfect their taxis without the Covid-19 emergency relief funds promised by transport minister Fikile Mbalula last year. Over R1-billion emergency relief funds are earmarked for the taxi industry to make up for losses suffered during the lockdown. Speaking to TimesLIVE, spokesperson for the Limpopo National Taxi Alliance (LNTA), Frans Kgasago, said there was no way the taxi bosses could afford to disinfect their taxis because business was at its lowest point due to the pandemic.