EFF leader Julius Malema on Thursday warned South Africans against believing baseless theories about the Covid-19 vaccines. This as SA has secured 20 million doses of the vaccine which will be delivered during the first half of the year. Malema was addressing a media briefing when he lashed out at vaccine fear-mongers and conspiracy theorists for threatening SA’s progress in its fight against the pandemic. For this, he partly blamed SA’s decision to procure the vaccine rather than manufacture its own. France has announced that people travelling from non-EU countries will no longer be able to get into the country by presenting a negative result from a quick, readily-available Covid-19 test. The new rules, which come into force from Jan. 18 and are set out in a French government document, say people will no longer be able to use antigen, or lateral flow, tests that can deliver results within minutes. Those quicker tests have been heavily used by truck drivers transporting goods across the Channel between Britain and France. Hospitals in Brazil's northern state of Amazonas ran short of oxygen and made an urgent call for help from the US on Thursday, as Britain slapped a ban on new arrivals from Brazil over fears of a new home-grown coronavirus variant. Researchers said the new variant could be contributing to the sharp rise in cases in Amazonas state, though they were conducting more studies to ascertain if it is more contagious than earlier versions of the coronavirus. Amazonas, where nearly 6,000 people have died from Covid-19, is now suffering a devastating second wave that is pushing emergency services to breaking point. The portfolio committee on home affairs has called for an urgent action plan from stakeholder departments at ports of entry in the country, aimed at ensuring adherence to health protocols intended to curb the transmission of Covid-19. The committee said the state of affairs at border entry posts between SA and Mozambique undermined President Cyril Ramaphosa’s call to close borders to reduce congestion and the high risk of transmissions, with people only allowed to cross in “limited circumstances”. “Members of the committee were unanimous in their criticism of the operation within the border post, more especially because the authorities are processing a limited number of people as a result of closed borders,” committee chairperson Bongani Bongo said. About 200 people broke UK lockdown rules this week to take part in a massive snowball fight at a park in Leeds, as the country battles a vicious wave of the coronavirus that has left some hospitals with no beds to treat patients. According to the BBC, a large crowd took part or looked on as snowballs were thrown in Leeds' Hyde Park on Thursday afternoon, in clear violation of lockdown rules to only meet with those in your household or support bubble. A video of “the battle of Hyde Park” was shared on social media and showed two groups of people charging and throwing snowballs at each other. It appears unlikely private schools will be allowed to open earlier than public schools, as was the case last year. On Friday, deputy basic education minister Reginah Mhaule  said schools that were scheduled to reopen on January 27 will open on February 15. Mhaule said: “We are one country and even if you are an independent school, you are a school. South Africans will have to continue applying Covid-19 preventive measures even after the targeted 67% of the population has been vaccinated, said health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize. In an exclusive interview with TimesLIVE, Mkhize said: “While we are targeting 67% for herd immunity, it could happen that we are in the middle of another wave when we achieve that and many people will still be at risk, so we will have to continue with containment until it's safe. “The use of masks, sanitising and social distancing cannot stop because we are vaccinating or have fully vaccinated,” Mkhize explained. Outspoken musician Simphiwe Dana has shared her concern that SA leaders are taking an "'authoritarian tone” with the nation, warning that it may be the early signs of a dictatorship. Simphiwe, like many of us, has been watching politicians speak over the last few weeks on the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown restrictions. After Julius Malema's fiery address to the nation on Thursday, Simphiwe took to Twitter to share her worry that leaders are becoming more and more authoritarian. More than 100 temporary disability grant beneficiaries have been sleeping outside the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) office in Bellville, Cape Town since Monday. EFF leader Julius Malema left South Africans in stitches on Thursday when he called for the suspension of “mjolo” until the Covid-19 storm is over. The firebrand leader was addressing a media briefing on the government's response to coronavirus pandemic. SA has been on level 3 lockdown since December 28, with some of the restrictions including the ban of sales of alcohol, shutting down of beaches in all hotspot areas and the closure of 20 land borders until February 15. It turns out, the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) left out one more: mjolo. As Mzansi continues to mourn the loss of Kaya FM's much loved Mzwandile “DJ 1D”  Nzimande, his family have confirmed that the DJ died after testing positive for Covid-19. DJ 1D died on January 13 at the Olivedale Clinic in Johannesburg, aged 44. Social media and mainstream media platforms have been flooded with condolences from fans, friends and industry mates, as they sang praises of the man most described as humble. The basic education department on Friday confirmed that the reopening of schools has been postponed to February 15. “Given the pressure experienced by the health system in the past few weeks, occasioned by increased Covid-19 infections which has led to the second wave, the Council of Education Ministers in conjunction with the National Coronavirus Command Council and cabinet, has taken the decision to delay the reopening of both public and private schools with two weeks,” deputy basic minister Reginah Mhaule told a media briefing. “This includes private schools that have reopened already. They will need to postpone their reopening to a later date. This is done to provide relief to the health system which is already struggling to cope with the current demands.” India will treat a domestic Covid-19 vaccine “equally” with a prominent global one, even though the home-grown drug's efficacy has not been proven, and people will have no choice which one they get, a top government vaccine official told Reuters. The government on Saturday will launch one of the world's biggest vaccination programmes with shots manufactured in India — one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc, the other by Bharat Biotech International Ltd with a state-run institute. Administering Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN, a move cheered by nationalist politicians, has worried some health experts who consider it rushed, as the vaccine has only limited, “clinical-trial mode” approval. In addition to efficacy concerns, the close monitoring required for its use will be a huge challenge in a country of 1.35 billion people. Japan's Hiroshima prefecture said on Friday it will carry out large-scale polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing to curb the spread of coronavirus, a rarity in a nation that lags far behind many other countries in the number of tests conducted. The western Japan prefecture aims to conduct PCR tests for 800,000 people in the city of Hiroshima, which has a population of 1.2 million. The 800,000 comprises residents in the city's four wards hardest hit by the virus and workers who commute into the area. Parliament's portfolio committee on health has expressed concern at the insufficient oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients in hospitals in KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo. The problem with oxygen supply emerged during a briefing to the committee by the KwaZulu-Natal and the Limpopo departments of health on the status of health care services in relation to Covid-19. KwaZulu-Natal health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu told the committee on Thursday that funerals have become Covid-19 super-spreaders, as people were not observing health protocols during these events. She said Afrox, the company that supplies all the provinces with oxygen, has been struggling to keep up with demand. The US Supreme Court rejected on Thursday night a lower court's ruling that the final two scheduled federal executions of President Donald Trump's administration be delayed to allow the condemned men to recover from Covid-19. The ruling from the court's conservative majority meant Corey Johnson, a convicted murderer, is set to be strapped to a gurney in the US Department of Justice's execution chamber in Terre Haute, Indiana, a short time later on Thursday night to be injected with lethal doses of pentobarbital. The Justice Department has scheduled the execution of Dustin Higgs, convicted in a separate murder, for Friday evening. His lawyers are also challenging his execution on other legal grounds besides his Covid-19 diagnosis, but the Supreme Court has so far allowed all executions to proceed since Trump resumed the practice last year after a 17-hiatus. Covid-19 patients in need of oxygen in Zimbabwe are in a dire situation as the country’s hospitals run critically short of medical oxygen. Many people in need have taken to social medical looking to buy oxygen cylinders. Private medical suppliers are selling oxygen concentrators for between USD$2,000 (about R30,300) and USD $3,700 (about R56,000) — a price which is beyond the reach of many in Zimbabwe. Thailand reported 188 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking its total infections to 11,450.There were no new deaths reported and 34 of the new cases were imported from abroad or found in quarantine, the country's Covid-19 taskforce said at a briefing. Thailand has recorded 69 coronavirus-related deaths since a year ago. Reuters Health experts have called on Gauteng residents to put themselves voluntarily into lockdown level five, warning that the peak of the second wave was still to come. Experts also called on government to introduce online learning until there’s a clear downward trend beyond the peak. UKZN’s Prof Mosa Moshabela said: “To reduce infections, I think people who can, should just stay home and work from home. Just take yourself into level five lockdown.” An eminent professor of economics at Stellenbosch University has urged the department of basic education to reopen schools as soon as possible, in the interests of pupils. Servaas van der Berg said “being out of school is bad for children mentally, psychologically and socially, and undermines their long-term academic and economic prospects”. Greenwood is one of hundreds of temporary disability and care-dependency grant applicants waiting outside the Bellville office of the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa), exposed to scorching heat by day and the dangers of the streets at night. The situation is similar at other Sassa branches in Cape Town.