Beware of state capture networks in Covid-19 vaccine procurement: Blade Nzimande SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande has called on South Africans to watch out for corruption and “state capture networks” in the sourcing of Covid-19 vaccines for SA. Nzimande was delivering a keynote address at the party's commemoration of the anniversary on the death of former SACP leader Joe Slovo. According to Nzimande, the party was hard at work “forging a broad global left campaign” for equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Covid-19 has forced the cancelation of the potentially explosive Currie Cup clash between Western Province and the Sharks which was scheduled for Newlands Stadium on Saturday. SA Rugby confirmed in a statement on Wednesday morning that the decision was taken following a number of positive Covid-19 tests in the Sharks camp and that the match has been declared a draw with the two teams receiving two log points. The other two Currie Cup matches for this weekend between the Griquas and the Cheetahs in Kimberley on Saturday and between the Pumas and the Bulls in Nelspruit on Sunday will go ahead as planned. Police minister Bheki Cele has confirmed that soldiers will be deployed to help enforce lockdown rules on the Garden Route from Wednesday due to Covid-19 infections taking significant numbers of police officers off the streets. “We have requested to have soldiers work with members of the police service because our own numbers are down,” he said. Cele told Radio 702 presenter Mandy Wiener that 300 police officers have been infected with the coronavirus and 800 are in isolation, “so we need this extra force from the army”. Police ministry spokesperson Lirandzu Themba said soldiers would also be deployed in the Cape Town area. The survival of small business owners and craft breweries is in peril due to the alcohol ban, says the Beer Association of South Africa (Basa). The association on Wednesday issued an urgent call to President Cyril Ramaphosa to lift the ban. The booze ban, which came into effect on December 28, has had a devastating impact on the industry and forced some members to dip into their savings. But these have now been depleted in some cases, leaving them in desperate need of financial relief. “The third ban is devastating to craft brewers, who are small businesses owners who work within small margins, always putting the welfare of their staff before their own. It is now no longer a question of keeping businesses open – it has become a question of whether business owners, their employees and families will have any food to eat this month,” said Wendy Pienaar, CEO of the Craft Brewers Association South Africa (CBASA). Private health-care group Netcare says patient admissions to its hospitals in the Western Cape are starting to stabilise, and are decreasing in the Eastern Cape. However, the group is readying itself in the face of an “alarming” increase in admissions in Gauteng and elsewhere in the country - notably at its hospital in Polokwane, which is more than 100% full. “In Gauteng we are, as expected, already experiencing an alarming rise in admissions of Covid-19 patients across all our facilities. This is expected to rapidly worsen over the next two weeks,” Netcare Group CEO Richard Friedland said on Wednesday. Almost 340 state health-care workers died of Covid-19 related illness in SA between March and November, health minister Zweli Mkhize said in response to written questions in parliament. A total of 339 health-care workers died in hospital during this time, with most deaths occurring in the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. As of October 31, there were 35,145 confirmed Covid-19 cases among the state health-care community, said Mkhize. "The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on human resources in health since the first positive case in the republic has been enormous,” he added. Police minister Bheki Cele says while the government cannot keep the economy closed forever, the alcohol ban is good for his department. On Tuesday, Cele told eNCA that he did not know whether the alcohol ban should continue but said the non-availability of alcohol “made history” at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto. The hospital, for the first time ever, reported no trauma casualties on New Year's Eve. A video of more than a dozen mortuary and funeral parlour vans waiting outside the RK Khan Hospital in Chatsworth on Monday is being shared as a reminder of the seriousness of the pandemic in KwaZulu-Natal. The person who took the video is heard saying in Zulu there were several vehicles waiting to collect bodies. A Durban organisation is investigating the source of an alleged hoax message claiming that it was distributing the controversial drug Ivermectin, which is being used to combat the transmission of Covid-19 in some quarters internationally. The Natal Memon Jamaat (NMJ) community-based organisation issued a statement on its social media platforms warning the public that a message doing the rounds regarding the free distribution of the drug was a “hoax”. McLaren driver Lando Norris has tested positive for Covid-19 and is self-isolating, his Formula One team said on Tuesday. McLaren said Norris had returned a positive result on Monday in Dubai, where he is on holiday before the team’s training camp. Norris, 21, said he took a Covid-19 test after losing his sense of taste and smell. The department of health’s legal team says it is prepared to oppose any court action by National Freedom Party (NFP) MP Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam to secure an urgent audience with health minister Zweli Mkhize about the controversial drug Ivermectin. Shaik Emam and a group of scientists have separately thrown their weight behind a call for the anti-parasitic drug  - used to combat the transmission of Covid-19 in some quarters internationally - to be studied and considered for human consumption in SA. Ivermectin, hailed as a revolutionary drug in the 1980s and which works by paralysing and killing parasites including lice and worms in livestock, has been gaining traction as a “miracle cure” for Covid-19 patients. EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has weighed in on the debate around the Beitbridge border post, claiming that closing the border between SA and its neighbours could cause a disaster greater than the Covid-19 pandemic. Videos allegedly from the border have been shared widely on social media this week, showing massive crowds delayed while trying to get into SA. This is as officials in Limpopo identified 18 cases of fake negative Covid-19 test results produced at the post by people attempting to enter the country. Disclosed someone’s Covid-19 status without their permission? You could be fined R3,000. If you are caught transporting or selling booze, your fine could reach the R20,000 mark. The alternative? A term of imprisonment to be determined by the court. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela says government should not put all its hopes on a Covid-19 cure, and instead emphasis prevention to fight the spread of the coronavirus. Speaking on CapeTalk on Tuesday, Madonsela said behavioural change was important to curb the spread of the virus. She said while SA should be concerned ahead of the rollout of vaccines, “it is not as bad as it looks”. She did, however, admit "government could have managed the situation better”. “The Disaster Management Act requires a collaborative approach where provinces are not consulted but are included. There is a difference between collaborating and consulting. Rapper Cassper Nyovest has again slammed police for not doing enough to address the scourges of gender-based violence (GBV) and human trafficking, claiming they are too focused on “looking for alcohol”. The star took to Twitter on Tuesday to share his shock at a post about a 14-year-old girl who had gone missing, asking when the war against women and children would end. “Not this again. When is this going to stop? SA isn't safe for women and children,” he wrote. Should government be worried if its ban on the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products under the hard lockdown is ultimately found by the courts to be unlawful? Could the state face a claim for damages? Tobacco companies and suppliers lost income during the early stages of the lockdown, which raises questions about the potential for future damages claims. The answer, according to one legal expert, is “no”. On Monday, government applied for leave to appeal against a high court decision in December which found that Regulation 45, used by government to effect the ban, could not stand up to constitutional scrutiny. “The powers under section 27 of the Disaster Management Act are discretionary. In order for someone to sustain a valid claim against the government, it would be necessary to prove the discretion was exercised maliciously,” said Fluxmans Attorneys director of litigation Saul Shoot. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to meet with the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) on Wednesday. TimesLIVE reported the meeting is set for 9am. It comes as SA's Covid-19 death toll rises, and amid speculation Ramaphosa will announce changes to the country's lockdown restrictions. However, the meeting does not guarantee a change to lockdown restrictions will follow. “It’s sad to see patients die, knowing that there was something that could be done to save their lives.” These are the words of a doctor based at Mankweng hospital in Polokwane, Limpopo. The doctor, who did not want to be named for fear of being victimised, said patients were dying at a high rate from Covid-19 complications. “Sometimes I just feel like going to a GP and getting a sick note just so I can stay home for two to three days to help me deal with the different emotions inside me. But I can't do that because I need to be there for the patients and do the best I can to save those that can be saved,” the doctor told TimesLIVE.