The Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) is SA’s statutory council for policy-focused research in the humanities and social sciences. The work aims to generate knowledge to reduce poverty and inequality, and improve employment opportunities and the quality of life for people in SA and Africa. The organisation employs 450 staff in offices in Pretoria, Cape Town, Durban and Pietermaritzburg. The HSRC is looking for talented researchers and funding to conduct large-scale, responsive, and insightful studies in public health, education, economics and democratic governance. In its new strategic plan, as a trusted partner of government and civil society, the council is committed to grow its efforts to translate this and other research into tangible social impact. The council seeks to appoint as its CEO a dynamic, courageous, innovative and experienced thought leader, who is able to motivate and inspire staff, partners and the public to support sustainable economic and social development, greater social equity, social justice, and the extension and deepening of democracy. The appointment is for five years and renewable for a second term at the discretion of the board. The successful applicant can be based in Cape Town or Pretoria. Key areas of responsibility of the CEO are to: The successful applicant will ideally combine academic leadership and executive management experience in ways that include the following: Minimum requirements: Recommended additional requirements: The HSRC offers a competitive package, designed to attract a candidate of the highest calibre. Relocation costs will be covered, if applicable. The HSRC is committed to furthering employment equity in its appointment practices. Applicants must submit a letter of motivation, CV, details of three referees with contact details (telephone and e-mail), and copies of three recent, sole or first-authored publications. The HSRC will only consider applications that comply with the above requirements. Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend an interview on a date to be announced and will be required to make an oral presentation to the HSRC community in the competencies required. Applications should be addressed to the board secretary and sent by e-mail to mrousseau@hsrc.ac.za, by no later than February 28 2021. Confidential enquiries about the position may be made to the chair of the board, professor Mvuyo Tom, via the board secretary. Applications from recruitment agencies will not be accepted. This article was paid for by The Human Sciences Research Council.