The Fair-Trade Independent Tobacco Association has expressed concern about the government's intention to appeal against the decision of the Western Cape High Court in December, which set aside the ban on cigarette sales. The association, which represents 80% of licensed cigarette manufacturers in Southern Africa, said it felt this step by the government was regrettable given the irreparable harm on the tobacco industry during the five-month ban on the sale of tobacco products. Fita had failed in its application, before the high court in Pretoria in June, to set aside the regulation banning the sale of tobacco products. A full bench held that cigarettes were not essential. Reality TV star and businesswoman Khanyi Mbau has urged the government to consider allowing the sale of alcohol for a limited number of days per week to save the liquor industry and the livelihoods of its employees. “The reason that I'm raising this is because it's January, schools are about to reopen, there are families, people that work in the liquor industry that cannot go back to work, earn a living to support their families and make sure that their children go to school,” she said in a video posted on Twitter. Khanyi, who is also in the alcohol industry and owns a gin brand, said she is worried about her employees. The SA Institute of Race Relations (IRR) wants more details on SA’s Covid-19 vaccine strategy. The institute has demanded that health minister Zweli Mkhize provide extra details or face court action. In a four-page letter to Mkhize on Tuesday, the NGO said it had found Mkhize’s plan wanting. Mkhize has until the end of business day on January 11 to respond, according to the letter written by the IRR’s lawyers. EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has split social media with his latest comments about the Covid-19 vaccine, suggesting SA buys “exactly one vaccine” and replicate it. On Monday, Ndlozi said the vaccine could be copied and produced in bulk for people in the country. “We must buy exactly one vaccine, copy it and reproduce it in bulk for ourselves in SA. Medical patents during such a deadly pandemic are completely wrong, inhuman and must be rejected by all of humanity. No patent on any vaccine — put lives before profit,” he said. The ANC will abandon its dismissive approach to conspiracies about Covid-19 and plans to create platforms to educate its members about the coronavirus. This comes after one of its councillors, Sfiso Mngadi in eThekwini, made outrageous claims, saying there is no Covid-19, that 5G cellphone towers are making people ill and that white people have already been vaccinated against the illness. The high court in Cape Town erred in not finding that Regulation 45, used by the government to ban the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products during the initial stages of the lockdown, was rational. This is one of 13 grounds co-operative governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma raised as she appealed against the judgment made in December, which held that the ban under Regulation 45 of the Disaster Management Act was irrational. British American Tobacco SA and tobacco traders challenged the regulation after the sale of tobacco products was banned during levels 5, 4 and 3 of the lockdown. The sale of tobacco products was allowed again only in mid-August, when the country moved to lockdown level 2. In its judgment, the court found Regulation 45 could not stand up to constitutional scrutiny. The judgment found the regulation limited smokers' rights to human dignity because it denied them the choice of buying tobacco products. The SA Liquor Brandowners Association (Salba) has warned the public to avoid illegal booze after an armed robbery at one of its member company’s production facility in Durban. According to the association, thousands of bottle caps were stolen at its facility on December 30, two days into the current alcohol sales ban during level 3 lockdown. “One of the illicit alcohol practices is to refill used, branded bottles with illegal alcohol, reseal them and sell that to consumers. This practice poses a major health risk to consumers.” eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has gone into isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. According to a statement released by the city, Kaunda is isolating at home and “remains in good health”. Kaunda urged residents to avoid “unnecessary movements and organising super-spreader events”. A Durban community organisation set up a 20-bed treatment area on the grounds of an overwhelmed private hospital in eight hours after the facility appealed for help. Muslims for Humanity reacted to a distress call from the Ahmed Al-Kadi Hospital which needed to urgently set up a Covid-19 reception and receiving facility after critically ill patients were forced to wait in their cars as the demand for beds increased. Muslims for Humanity roped in community- based organisation Natal Memon Jamaat (NMJ) to assist with the project. Government spokesperson Phumla Williams has denied claims that the presidency has allowed fake reports about planned addresses to the nation by President Cyril Ramaphosa to thrive on social media. “Actually, the presidency issues an official statement when he is scheduled to address the nation,” she tweeted on Monday. Williams said she was inundated with calls from people who wanted to know whether Ramaphosa would be addressing the nation on Monday after a fake notice which purported to be from the presidency went viral on Twitter. Rachel Kolisi, businesswoman and wife of Springbok captain Siya Kolisi, says two more family members have tested positive for Covid-19 as she remains in isolation after contracting the virus. Their youngest daughter Keziah and Siya's sister Liphelo have also joined over one million South Africans who have been infected by the virus since it first hit SA in March last year. Keziah, says Rachel in an Instagram post, isn't showing any symptoms while Liphelo is battling “full-on adult symptoms”. Hundreds of children formed an orderly queue that snaked through Nairobi's biggest slum Kibera on Monday, waiting to enter classrooms for the first time since March, when the government closed schools after Kenya reported its first Covid-19 case. The country is the last in East Africa to fully reopen its schools. Children in grades four, eight and 12 returned to class in October so they could prepare for exams postponed amid the pandemic. The World Health Organisation and the UN children’s agency UNICEF say prolonged school closures due to Covid-19 present many risks for children in poor countries. Higher rates of teenage pregnancy, poor nutrition, and permanent drop outs from school are among the dangers. For most people, infection with SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — leads to mild, short-term symptoms, acute respiratory illness, or possibly no symptoms at all. But some people have long-lasting symptoms after their infection — this has been dubbed “long Covid”. Scientists are still researching long Covid. It’s not well understood, though our knowledge about it is growing. Here I take a look at what we’ve learnt about it so far — who is at risk, how common it is and what its effects are. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday ordered England into a new national lockdown to try to slow a surge in Covid-19 cases that threatens to overwhelm parts of the health system before a vaccine programme reaches a critical mass. Johnson said a new, more contagious variant of the coronavirus was spreading at great speed and urgent action was needed to slow it down. “As I speak to you tonight, our hospitals are under more pressure from Covid than any time since the start of the pandemic,” Johnson said in a televised address to the country as he ditched his regional approach to fighting the pandemic. Matric marking centres opened their doors on Monday as marking of the 2020 final exam papers is set to start by Thursday nationwide. And while some grade 12 teachers are ready and raring to put pen to paper, some are filled with anxiety as they will be entering unfamiliar territory amid the second wave of Covid-19. A Covid-19 vaccine can be expected in SA between March and the end of the year. This is according to President Cyril Ramaphosa, who told Bloomberg this week that Pfizer and BioNTech offered to supply Africa with 50 million vaccines for health workers in 2021. According to the presidency, the cost of Pfizer’s vaccines are “prohibitive”.