The Tembisa Provincial Tertiary Hospital says it will review the health ombud's damning report on the care and death of Shonisani Lethole, 34. Dr. Lekopane Mogaladi, Tembisa Hospital CEO, told TimesLIVE on Thursday that the report contained false and misleading information. He claims the hospital was not afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the evidence contained in the report. “Not all staff members were interviewed for the report and they rejected affidavits of patients who were witnesses. The ones they went with for the report, it's one-sided,” Mogaladi said. This is an opportune time for the government to roll back the prohibition on alcohol sales to limit further losses of jobs and revenue, the liquor sector says. The SA Liquor Brand owners Association (Salba) cited the National Institute for Communicable Diseases' (NICD’s) Daily Hospital Surveillance Report, showing the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country has dropped over the past two weeks, in some cases by more than 50%. The national health department says wrapping coffins of Covid-19 victims in plastic and attaching biohazard stickers are unnecessary. Health department spokesperson Popo Maja said they have received reports that the coffins of Covid-19 victims, including the human remains, are being wrapped in plastic and marked with biohazard stickers before burials. Failure to move above the mark for nearly 10 years is a damning indictment of the extent of corruption and its damage: Corruption Watch The evidence on ivermectin is flimsy and there is no compelling case for it to be used in the fight against Covid-19. This is according to the co-chairperson of the ministerial advisory committee (MAC) Prof Salim Abdool Karim, who was speaking on Jacaranda FM on Wednesday. Abdool Karim said research on whether ivermectin can cure Covid-19 was currently flawed due to the small sample size and a lack of clear recommended dosages. The variant of Covid-19 first discovered in England, which is said to have a higher rate of transmission, has been found in 10% of the Covid-19 cases in France, government spokesman Gabriel Attal said. Attal reiterated in an interview with France Inter radio on Thursday that the option of a stricter lockdown remained open to President Emmanuel Macron's government, but he did not provide more specific detail. France reported nearly 27,000 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its biggest one-day jump since mid-November when France was in its second full lockdown, indicating current curfew measures are not containing the virus. Reuters A World Health Organization-led team investigating the origins of the deadly Covid-19 pandemic left its quarantine hotel on Thursday to begin fieldwork, two weeks after arriving in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the virus emerged in late 2019. The team boarded a bus and departed the hotel shortly after 3 p.m. local time (0700 GMT) without speaking to journalists. Germany is preparing entry restrictions for travellers from Britain, Brazil and South Africa, the interior ministry said on Thursday, as concerns of more contagious coronavirus variants are rising. The new rules are being discussed with the German government, the spokesman added. Reuters Staff at laboratory testing centres in Zimbabwe have been implicated in issuing fake Covid-19 test results. Working at both public health institutions and private laboratories, they are accused of issuing falsified test results in return for bribes. The Western Cape government has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa asking him to convene a president's co-ordinating council meeting and consider easing some of the lockdown restrictions. Pfizer Inc and BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine appeared to lose only a small bit of effectiveness against an engineered virus with three key mutations from the new coronavirus variant found in South Africa, according to a laboratory study conducted by the US drugmaker. The study by Pfizer and scientists from the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB), which has not yet been peer-reviewed, showed a less than two-fold reduction in antibody titer levels, indicating the vaccine would likely be effective in neutralizing a virus with the so-called E484K and N501Y mutations found in the South African variant. Reuters Vietnam's health ministry on Thursday confirmed its first two locally transmitted Covid-19 cases in nearly two months, just weeks before the country's Lunar New Year holiday period, when big gatherings indoors are expected. Though a tiny number compared with new coronavirus infections in many countries, the two cases are a jolt for Vietnam. Thanks to strict quarantine, testing and tracing measures, it has reported only 1,551 cases and 35 Covid-19 deaths before Thursday, earning it a top three spot in a survey of how well countries have handled the pandemic. On Thursday Vietnam's health ministry ordered provinces and state agencies to tighten screening and controls. Contact tracing efforts were launched in two northern provinces Hai Duong and Quang Ninh, where the two new infections were detected - one of which was linked to the new UK variant of the virus - and a village in Hai Duong was locked down, according to state media. The UK variant has been determined to be much more easily transmissible."We have to make all efforts to locate the infected areas within 10 days to put down the outbreak," Vu Duc Dam, head of the national Covid-19 task force said in a health ministry statement. In awkward timing for the country's government, the two new cases also came as the ruling Communist Party gathers in Hanoi for its five-yearly congress to pick new leadership, with 1,600 delegates from across Vietnam in attendance. Reuters Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador was progressing well with minimal symptoms of Covid-19, a senior health official said on Wednesday. Lopez Obrador, 67, was experiencing brief episodes of fever and a minor headache, but "virtually no other discomfort," Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell said during a regular government news conference. "He is still very active, not only with minimal symptoms, but he continues to carry out his functions," Lopez-Gatell said.Interior Minister Olga Sanchez said earlier on Wednesday that the president was "stable and well." Lopez Obrador announced he tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday after returning to the capital on a commercial flight from an event in central Mexico. Mexican health officials have said they were working to identify people who may have had close contact to the president while he was contagious. Reuters AstraZeneca Plc has told Japan's health ministry it would produce more than 90 million coronavirus vaccine shots in the country, Japan's top government spokesman said on Thursday. Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told reporters it is very important for Covid-19 vaccines to be produced domestically. AstraZeneca is working with Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd and other Japanese partners to deliver a total of 120 million doses to the nation. Reuters