SA has enough Covid-19 vaccine doses in the pipeline for 40 million people and is "not at all anxious" that it will run into problems with its immunisation programme, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said on Wednesday. The government plans to vaccinate 40 million people, or two-thirds of the population, to achieve some level of herd immunity. Mkhize added that the country had a long discussion with AstraZeneca's leadership about possibly conducting another study in the country to reduce levels of uncertainty over the efficacy of its vaccine. Reuters Dr Steve Mankupane, acting CEO of Soweto's Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital, will be among the first health workers in Gauteng to be vaccinated against the coronavirus on Wednesday. Gauteng health MEC Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi will also receive the jab, alongside about 28 other health workers at Bara. The inoculation programme kicked off in SA on Wednesday afternoon, after the arrival of the first batch of 80,000 single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccines on Tuesday evening. Eighteen public hospitals across SA will receive the newly acquired Johnson & Johnson vaccines on Wednesday. The vaccines arrived in the country on Tuesday night and are the first batch of 80,000 doses of the vaccine which are being distributed across SA. Labour ward sister Zoliswa Gidi-Dyosi became the first healthworker in SA to be vaccinated against Covid-19 on Wednesday. She was injected with the Johnson & Johnson vaccination at Khayelitsha District Hospital in the Western Cape, watched by health minister Zweli Mkhize and Western Cape health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo. The arrival of the Johnson & Johnson (J&J) vaccine in SA has been welcomed by many online. The first delivery of 80,000 J&J vaccines arrived on Tuesday at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg and has been approved by the SA Health Products Regulatory Authority (Sahpra). Health minister Zweli Mkhize told parliament that the vaccine has a 57% efficacy against the 501Y.V2 variant and is fully protective against serious illness or death. Advocacy group the Healthy Living Alliance (Heala) believes if SA doubled its sugary drinks tax, it could raise billions to help fund the fight against Covid-19. Lawrence Mbalati, head of Heala, said beverages are taxed about 2.21c per gram of sugar for anything over a four gram threshold. The advocacy group was at the forefront of pushing for the sugary drinks tax implemented in 2018. Britain will on Wednesday call for a UN resolution to help negotiate ceasefires so that people in conflict zones can be vaccinated against Covid-19, saying member states have a moral duty to protect the vulnerable. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab will chair a virtual meeting of the UN Security Council on Wednesday to discuss the threat facing the more than 160 million people living in areas of instability and conflict, such as Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia. “We have a moral duty to act, and a strategic necessity to come together to defeat this virus,” Raab said in a statement. President Cyril Ramaphosa has confirmed the arrival of the Johnson and Johnson Covid-19 vaccine and said the doses were being prepared to be distributed across South Africa. "As this batch has already been approved by the SA Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) under the Sisonke protocol, these vaccines will be rapidly dispatched to all provinces. "It is expected that most vaccination centres will be ready from today, 17 February 2021, to begin the vaccination programme," he said. Eighteen percent of South African households reported someone going hungry at the end of last year, a survey published on Wednesday found, with the situation worsening despite welfare payments to fight the impact of COVID-19. The hunger rate compares to 14% recorded in an official survey in 2018, showing the impact of the pandemic, researchers wrote in findings of the National Income Dynamics Coronavirus Rapid Mobile Survey (NIDS-CRAM), which followed 10,000 adults. "The reduction of social protection while rates of adult and child hunger are still at the highest they have been for a decade will have severe consequences," they wrote. Reuters Hundreds of contract health-care workers could lose their jobs because the fate of the Dr Elizabeth Mamisa Chabula-Nxiweni Field Hospital in Port Elizabeth - which offered a glimpse of hope in the fight against Covid-19 - is up in the air. The contract between automotive giant Volkswagen SA (VWSA) and the Eastern Cape health department comes to an end on March 31. This includes the contracts of 331 health-care workers hired by the government. Killer tornadoes in the US Southeast and historic sub-zero cold as far south as Texas were blamed on Tuesday for seven deaths and massive power outages that cancelled Covid-19 inoculations and threatened to disrupt vaccine supplies. Treacherous weather will maintain its grip on many parts of the US from Tuesday through Friday, with up to 4 inches of snow and freezing rain expected from the southern Plains into the Northeast, forecasters said. “We're calling it Storm System No. 2, with very similar placement to the previous storm,” said meteorologist Lara Pagano of the National Weather Service's Weather Prediction Center in College Park, Maryland. She was referring to a system that blasted the nation through the long Presidents Day holiday weekend, dumping snow and ice from Ohio to the Rio Grande. The needle of SA's first Covid-19 vaccination is expected to be inserted into the arm of a healthcare worker on Wednesday afternoon. The first batch of the Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Covid-19 vaccine arrived at Johannesburg's OR Tambo International Airport on Tuesday night, health minister Zweli Mkhize confirmed. The consignment was moved to a secure facility in Gauteng before being distributed overnight to vaccine centres in all provinces, government said. The first batch of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine arrived at the OR Tambo International Airport on Tuesday night. Government Twitter official page said that frontline health workers would be first in line to receive the vaccine. Vaccine rollout suspension not ‘all doom and gloom’. We have alternatives Subscribe: iono.fm, Spotify, Apple Podcast, Pocket Casts, Player.fm