The financial impact of  Covid-19 in the country could see thousands of University of the Witwatersrand students not return, despite interventions from the institution. Wits SRC president Mpendulo Mfeka said  8,124 students faced the risk of financial exclusions. “This means that even though they passed their academic courses and even though they are academically readmitted to the university, they will not be able to continue due to lacking the finances.” Mfeka said many students have lost their bursaries after companies closed; adding that many students were affected after their parents lost their jobs and were now unable to pay  fees. “Despite the unprecedented circumstances, the university has not responded adequately; students have been given a minuscule rebate and fees for 2021 were increased despite the fact the students were not on campus for the majority of 2020.” He said many families relied on the students and were hopeful that they would return and complete their students. Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel said the 8,000 students referred to are those who owe the institution money for the academic year of 2020. Patel said several students were still waiting outstanding payments from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme  or private bursaries. “This does not mean that they will be financially excluded. “The university is aware of the adverse impact of the coronavirus on students and their families. The pandemic has also impacted on the university and the higher education sector. “Government support has declined in real terms and student debt has increased dramatically due to the effects of #FeesMustFall, the economic downturn, the Covid-19 pandemic, and other factors.” Patel said the university had made many concessions to help students mitigate the impact of the pandemic, including: Patel said about  27,000 of the university’s 37,500 students are on some form of financial aid, scholarship or bursary. “Wits administers over R1bn in financial aid and scholarships every year, of which R100m is a provision made by the university. “Despite these interventions, there is still a need for more student support, and the university is thus supporting the drive from the SRC to create awareness about the need for more funds  to assist academically talented students.” Mfeka said the SRC would present an intervention strategy to the university at 6pm on Wednesday. TimesLIVE