The South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (Sahpra) has warned that ivermectin is still illegal in SA for use in the treatment and prevention of Covid-19 in humans, except by approved medical practitioners. This comes after Sahpra's approval of the drug for controlled compassionate use for Covid-19 amid a legal battle with AfriForum, a doctor and two of his patients at the North Gauteng High Court. Addressing parliament's health portfolio committee, the regulatory body warned that there was not enough scientific evidence around the use of the drug, both for safety and efficacy, to either treat or prevent Covid-19. The authority said there were only 10 medical practitioners approved to use the drug for Covid-19, but there was not enough data to prove whether it was safe or harmful. The SA military, under the leadership of the defence and military veterans department, had set aside R4.3bn for Covid-19 related missions, starting in April last year. Of that amount, R3bn was an allocation from National Treasury while the department reprioritised R1.3bn. This was revealed when the office of the auditor-general (AG) reported to parliament’s portfolio committee on defence and military veterans during a virtual sitting on Wednesday. A team of investigators led by the World Health Organisation visited a virus research laboratory in China's central city of Wuhan and met with a prominent virologist there in its search for clues to the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic. The experts spent about 3-1/2 hours at the heavily-guarded Wuhan Institute of Virology, which has been at the centre of some conspiracy theories that say a laboratory leak caused the city's first coronavirus outbreak at the end of 2019. “Extremely important meeting today with staff at WIV including Dr Shi Zhengli. Frank, open discussion. Key questions asked & answered,” team member Peter Daszak said on Twitter. Thailand's resort island of Phuket is planning private coronavirus vaccinations for 250,000 residents in the hope the government will allow it to fully reopen to foreign tourists by October and save its battered economy, industry officials said. “The people of Phuket are losing hope,” Phuket Tourism Association President, Bhummikitti Ruktaengam said, adding that the island's economy was at its lowest point in recent history. About 10.5 million of the nearly 40 million foreign visitors to Thailand in 2019 visited Phuket. A credit scheme central to SA's efforts to counter the economic impact of the coronavirus is on course to pay out less than a tenth of the loans it is offering, the country's banking association said on Wednesday. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the scheme, worth up to R200bn in bank loans partly guaranteed by the government, in April. It aims to encourage banks to lend more, on more favourable terms, to businesses whose operations have been affected by the pandemic, which has hit SA far harder than any other African nation. Singapore has become the first country in Asia to approve Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine as it begins rolling out its immunisation programme to the wider population. The city-state expects to receive the first shipment of the Moderna shots around March, adding to its stock of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine approved in December. More than 175,000 people have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, including health workers and airline staff, while vaccination centres have been set up in recent weeks to start inoculating the elderly, authorities have said. India's Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd will seek emergency-use authorisation for Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine by next month, a company official said on Wednesday, after peer-reviewed trial data confirmed its effectiveness. A source close to the drug regulator said the application could come within days and when approved, bolster India's 18-day-old immunisation campaign which has covered more than 4 million people with two other shots. Dr. Reddy's has been working with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to hold small clinical trials of Sputnik V in India. On Tuesday, RDIF told Indian news agency ANI that it expected to get approval for the vaccine this month or the next. While the Gift of the Givers team was deeply honoured by the social media call for it to be nominated for the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize, the love and acceptance from South Africans was the only award of real value the humanitarian aid group treasured. Founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman told TimesLIVE on Wednesday that his team was deeply grateful to the South African public, who had demonstrated love and acceptance for the work they had done and continue to do. “That is infinitely more priceless than any award, thanks or recognition from any head of state. To live in someone's heart is not ordinary, it's special. To live in the hearts of 60 million people is priceless. No award, no thanks, no recognition from anyone can supersede that. Britain's GlaxoSmithKline and German biotech firm CureVac have teamed up in a 150 million euro ($180 million) deal to develop a Covid-19 vaccine from next year that could target several variants with one shot. New, more contagious mutations of Covid-19 have emerged in Britain, SA and Brazil and while existing vaccines appear to offer some protection against them, there are fears further changes in the virus could evade current shots. For GSK, the world's largest vaccine maker by sales, the deal marks a fresh attempt to play a major role in fighting the pandemic after a Covid-19 alliance with Sanofi ran into delays and a collaboration with China's Clover Biopharmaceuticals was ended. The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine may be less able to protect against infection with a South African variant of the virus that has a worrying mutation, according to results of a British study released on Tuesday. The preliminary data, which have yet to be peer-reviewed and involve a small number of patients, also suggest a significant proportion of people aged over 80 may not be sufficiently protected against new variants of the virus until they have had two doses of the vaccine, researchers leading the study said. “Of particular concern ... is the emergence of the E484K mutation (found in the South African variant), which so far has only been seen in a relatively small number of individuals,” said Ravi Gupta, a professor at Cambridge University's Institute of Therapeutic Immunology & Infectious Disease, who co-led the study. Western Cape premier Alan Winde said on Tuesday the province had started training some of the 1,995 vaccinators who will ensure the administration of the Covid-19 vaccine. Winde said the training would equip the health-care workers with adequate knowledge and skills to ensure safe and efficient administration of vaccines. He said the number of vaccinators would grow as distribution phases progress from the first to the third phase. This means more health-care workers will be registered on the health department's database. LISTEN | Vaccines arrive in SA - what now? Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm Britain's health secretary said that scientists had shown the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine worked well, when asked about reported comments made by French President Emmanuel Macron that is "quasi-ineffective" among people over 65. "My view is that we should listen to the scientists... and the science on this one was already pretty clear, and then with this publication overnight is absolutely crystal clear that the Oxford vaccine not only works but works well," health secretary Matt Hancock told BBC Radio on Wednesday, referring to new data published by Oxford on Tuesday. Reuters Former public protector Thuli Madonsela has voiced her opinion about Africa receiving Covid-19 vaccines from other continents, saying this was “an indictment”. Madonsela’s comment comes a week after the African Union (AU) announced it secured 400 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the continent from the Serum Institute of India (SII). The doses are in addition to the 270 million doses the AU secured early last month. With the launch of the electronic vaccine data system (EVDS), health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Wednesday his department would do its best to make the vaccines available. “We will do the best in terms of making the vaccines available to give us the best possible outcome,” he said. During a public health webinar chaired by Mkhize on Covid-19 inoculation, he said about 34,000 health-care workers had already registered on the data system for the vaccine. DA MP Natasha Mazzone had social media buzzing on Tuesday, after her comments on vitamin D and the reopening of beaches. It all started when Mazzone welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that some lockdown restrictions would be eased. Among the changes were the unbanning of the sale of booze, reopening all beaches, and shortening the curfew from 11pm to 4am. Two Covid-19 vaccines from Chinese companies, including Sinopharm, triggered immunity against a highly transmissible coronavirus variant first found in SA, but their effect appeared weaker, a small sample lab study showed. The electronic vaccine data system self-registration portal is now up and running with more than 30,000 healthcare workers already registering for the vaccine, the national department of health said on Wednesday. The Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca has 76% efficacy against symptomatic infection for three months after a single dose, with greater effectiveness when a second is given later, a study showed on Tuesday. Japanese doctors and nurses fighting the novel coronavirus will not have the time to volunteer to help at the Olympics, a medical association has said, raising another headache for organisers determined to hold the postponed Games. The director of the Tokyo Medical Association, which represents 20,000 doctors from dozens of smaller medical groups, said doctors and nurses were under too much strain dealing with a third wave of the pandemic to even consider signing up for the Olympics. "No matter how I look at it, it's impossible," said Satoru Arai, whose association was asked by both the Tokyo Olympic Organising Committee and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government last March to secure more than 3,500 medical staff for the event. "I'm hearing doctors who initially signed up to volunteer say there's no way they can take time off to help when their hospitals are completely overwhelmed," Arai told Reuters this week, adding that he could not bring himself to push for volunteers at such a critical time. The Games had to be postponed from last July and August as the coronavirus spread around the world and are now scheduled for July 23-August 8. But persistent clusters of infections in Japan have raised questions about the feasibility of holding the Games this year and eroded support for the extravaganza among a public nervous about athletes and spectators bringing in new cases. Reuters Russia’s flagship two-shot Sputnik V vaccine has shown 91.6% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 in clinical trials, a Lancet peer review has confirmed, bringing the global total of vaccines whose efficacy is confirmed to be higher than 90% to three. The results from an interim analysis, now confirmed by peer review, also showed the jab provided full protection against moderate or severe cases of Covid-19. The EU’s failure to deliver Covid-19 vaccines at pace is a major political scandal. For some leading politicians, it is a potentially career-ending fiasco. Those in the line of fire include Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, Emmanuel Macron, president of France, and Jens Spahn, Germany’s health minister and a potential future chancellor. How did it come to this? Much of the blame lies with the European Commission — which, over the northern summer, persuaded the EU’s 27 member states to coordinate their vaccine drives and to put the commission itself in charge. Doctors have called for new laws to enforce responsible drinking, saying the strict lockdown regulations drastically improved hospital bed availability. Dr Ken Boffard, trauma director at Netcare’s Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg and emeritus professor of surgery at Wits university in the city, told Sunday Times Daily it was not only the alcohol sales ban, but also the curfew that made a difference. “The ban has hit restaurants hard. The lift should be to allow responsible drinking, such as at restaurants, with sales being allowed [on] certain days of the week. The aeroplane that landed on Monday afternoon with our first batch of one million Covid vaccines carried with it an interesting paradox for our country. On the one hand, it was a moment of extreme pride to receive this long-awaited consignment of AstraZeneca jabs produced at the Serum Institute by our friends in India. Our battered healthcare workers are overdue these life-saving jabs. The UK has been forced to confront the spread of the SA variant of coronavirus within the country, as the health secretary pledged on Monday to “come down hard” on the strain. The news came as the number of people in the UK who had their first jab of a Covid-19 vaccine rose to 9.3 million with another 319,038 first doses delivered. The government also hinted that it may share some of its vaccine supplies with other countries later in the year. Cyril Ramaphosa’s day on Monday was appreciably better than the ones preceding it. He could go on national television, the risibly termed “family conversation’” as a late day Father Christmas. He was flushed with excitement after his visit to Johannesburg Airport to receive a million batches (a small fraction of our need) of the long promised, hitherto unsighted vaccines. Then, in his television address, buoyed by declining coronavirus cases, he could mitigate the harshest aspects of the second wave lockdown regulations implemented last month.