An out-there and sometimes bonkers adaptation of the 2017 bestselling novel by Sarah Pinborough. When a single mom gets a job in a psychiatrist's office, she starts an affair with her boss that sends her on a journey through a psychological minefield in which she and the audience learn that nothing is what it seems and nobody can be trusted. Where to stream it: Netflix How much time you'll need to binge it: 6 hours Award-winning documentary director RJ Cutler takes a behind-the-scenes look at the path to global superstardom taken by teenage pop sensation Billie Eilish in the years leading up to her emergence from her parents' house as a 17-year-old pop culture phenomenon upon the release of her 2019 album When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? It's an intriguing piece of musical biography that makes good use of its personal archive footage to create a picture of a woman who's a household name but also in many ways still an ordinary American teenager dealing with the everyday challenges of adolescence. Where to stream it: Apple TV How much time you'll need to binge it: 2 hours A sometimes fascinating, sometimes frustrating anthology of stories set 15 years in the future, when scientists have made a discovery that will make the tough decision of who to spend the rest of your life with easier. Of course, matters of the heart are never solved as easily as we'd like and that's what the six self-contained stories in this series show in their own particular ways. Where to stream it: Amazon Prime Video How much time you'll need to binge it: 6 hours Sometimes predictable but often too-convoluted dystopian social drama set in the apocalyptic wasteland of 2074. When a global catastrophe ravages Europe and creates a battlefield of warring mini-states, three siblings set out to try to change the fate of the continent in the face of terrifying obstacles. Where to stream it: Netflix How much time you'll need to binge it: 6 hours A chilling supernatural local thriller in which a young woman living in Chile returns to her Eastern Cape home to bury her father. When she inherits his farm she finds that things are not what they seem and strange forces are operating beneath the picture-perfect façade of her small town. Well-acted, eerily realised and intriguing, it's a solid psychological horror that asks some tough questions about the relationships between the past and the present and their effect on shaping identity. Where to stream it: Showmax How much time you'll need to binge it: 6 hours