The department of social development has called on early childhood centres (ECDs) to apply for relief funding made available through the presidential employment stimulus. The stimulus was introduced by President Cyril Ramaphosa in October last year and is aimed at providing financial relief to sectors affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the R100bn set aside, R13bn was allocated for the current financial year. The remaining R87bn will be allocated over the next three years. SA plans to share a million AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses it received from the Serum Institute of India with other African countries via the AU, a senior health official said on Tuesday. The country paused the rollout of the AstraZeneca shots this month, after preliminary trial data showed they offered minimal protection against mild to moderate illness from the country's dominant coronavirus variant. It plans to start inoculating health-care workers with Johnson & Johnson's vaccine as soon as this week in a research study. Almost two-thirds of Eastern Cape residents may already have had Covid-19, with antibodies picked up in blood donations done in late January. This startling statistic emerged on Friday with the publication of a report led by the SA National Blood Service and the Western Cape Blood Service. Researchers estimated that 63% of those in the province already had the antibodies to neutralise the virus. SA's health ministry said on Tuesday that the manufacturers of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine had submitted documentation to local regulator the SAHPRA for registration. The ministry added in a statement that it was "continuously engaging" with the manufacturers of the vaccine. -REUTERS SA natural gas and helium producer Renergen will start production of its helium-powered ultra-cold mobile freezer in the next few days and has started discussions to sell the units to logistics companies. Companies and governments around the world are working on ways to establish cold-chain storage and delivery systems for vaccines such as the Pfizer Inc and BioNTech shot, which must be shipped and stored at ultra-cold temperatures and can only last at standard fridge temperatures for up to five days. Close to 3,000 pupils did not return to school last year after the imposition of the March lockdown due to Covid-19 fears, Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has disclosed. Lesufi said the school districts would be consolidating current attendance figures and compare it with the previous year, to verify the accurate number of pupils who might have dropped out. The department welcomed around 2.3 million pupils back to school on Monday, he said. SA has asked the Serum Institute of India to take back the one million Covid-19 vaccine doses the company had sent in early February, The Economic Times reported on Tuesday, a week after the country said it will put on hold use of AstraZeneca's shot in its vaccination program. Serum Institute of India, which is producing AstraZeneca's shot, has emerged as a key vaccine supplier. One million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine landed in South Africa last week and another 500,000 were due to arrive in the next few weeks. The company did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. -REUTERS