First-year undergraduate students are expected to begin the academic year at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) in March. UKZN spokesperson Normah Zondo said on Friday the institution was implementing a staggered approach to phase in the reopening of limited on-campus academic activities and related return of registered students to campus or residences. “Under the current Covid-19 alert level 3, an estimated 13,000 registered students will be permitted to return to campus, including residences,” Zondo said. Covid-19 manifests itself in various ways in patients and can sometimes lead to complications and the sudden deterioration of a patient's health, resulting in death. Medical experts explained to TimesLIVE how complications can develop in a short space of time and what causes them. “It is estimated that 20% of all infected patients will have moderate to severe disease requiring some medical support and a possible hospitalisation,” said Dr Neshaad Schrueder, head of specialist health services at Tygerberg hospital. We have all witnessed that the coronavirus mutates quickly, but does that mean it becomes more transmissible or severe? Will the vaccines work against the new dominant mutations of the virus found in the US, UK, SA and other countries? Prof Salim Abdool Karim sat down with TimesLIVE to break down frequently asked questions about mutations, vaccines, immunity and more. He explained there are thousands of variants around the world, but not all of them are a cause for concern. However, some mutations become more dominant than others, as we have seen with the 501Y.V2 variant. The Special Investigating Unit has made 38 referrals to the National Prosecution Authority for prosecution for fraud, corruption and contravening supply chain management policies. SIU head Andy Mothibi disclosed this on Friday, as he announced the finalised investigations and outcomes into allegations of corruption concerning Covid-19 personal protective equipment (PPE) procurement by state institutions. As at November 25 last year, the SIU had instituted civil matters at the Special Tribunal to the value of R259m for review, which includes the recovery of state funds in relation to corrupt activities associated with the state of disaster. The vaccine rollout programme in Gauteng is in preparation stage, with the provincial government determining the hospitals and clinics where health workers can receive their jabs. Planning in three other provinces - the Western Cape, Limpopo and the Northern Cape - is also in full swing. Officials signalled there are 402 primary health care clinics in the public sector and 33 hospitals which will be used as vaccination sites. About 165 private hospitals and clinics in the province will also be used as vaccination sites. PPE lost as fire guts storeroom of Gauteng hospital One of the buildings at the Carletonville Hospital caught fire on Thursday, resulting in  significant destruction of items inside - including personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers. This is according to the Gauteng health department, which on Friday confirmed the fire had not disrupted hospital services. There were no casualties. The hospital was being used for temporary storage of health equipment and linen meant for the Anglo-Ashanti Hospital during its construction phase, as the facilities are relatively close to one another. Limpopo hires guards to protect Covid-19 vaccines At least 200 health-care workers who will be vaccinating community members in Limpopo will travel with security guards to protect the vaccines. This was revealed in Polokwane yesterday by Limpopo health MEC Phophi Ramathuba when she detailed the province’s Covid-19 vaccine rollout plan. “We are going to allocate 200 vaccinators who are professional nurses and will allocate an enrolled nurse and a security guard to protect the vaccines. We already have 169 vaccinators in training. We might start vaccinating the first health workers on February 15,” she said. WATCH | Schooled! Prof Salim Abdool Karim tells the world to stop calling it ‘the SA variant’ of Covid-19 A video clip of Prof Salim Abdool Karim has gone viral after he told other countries to stop referring to a new Covid-19 variant as the “SA variant”. The co-chairperson of the ministerial advisory committee (MAC) made the plea during an interview on CNN this week, saying the Covid-19 variant 501Y.V2 was not a SA variant but a strain that emerged in the country. Abdool Karim said referring to 501Y.V2 as the “SA variant” was inappropriate. Bus industry fears mass closures as lockdown anniversary nears The coronavirus pandemic could bring the long-distance and charter bus industries to their knees. Bus operators who spoke to TimesLIVE after Greyhound and Citiliner announced this week that they were shutting shop said they feared they would follow suit. Tumisang Kgaboesele, CEO of Africa People Mover (APM), said the demise of Greyhound has laid bare the structural challenges facing the long-distance bus industry. Mexican president says he's in good health, recovering from Covid-19 Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said on Thursday in a video message that he is "in good health and recovering" from COVID-19 after announcing on Jan. 24 he had tested positive. The 67-year-old president, who was a heavy smoker until suffering a major heart attack in 2013, also said that he had tested negative in an antigen test earlier in the day. Lopez Obrador gave no details on whether he was now free from COVID-19. -REUTERS