The City of Johannesburg has lost 76 employees to Covid-19 up to this week. “They were not just numbers. In scores of offices around the city, there are empty desks where fallen colleagues used to sit. Some offices have gone quiet. The office joker is no more. The one who was so skilful in breaking the tension is gone, leaving the city all the poorer. “The sad passing of our colleagues and councillors means we have lost all that institutional memory they possessed and freely shared with the rest of us. Institutional memory is not something you build overnight. It takes years to acquire and impart,” said Floyd Brink, acting manager of City of Joburg. The South African wine industry is at a tipping point, with many wine businesses, especially smaller companies and those under black ownership, facing potential closures in the next three to 12 months due to the recurring and now fifth domestic wine sales restrictions. This is according to a survey by Vinpro, which represents about 2,600 wine and grape producers. “According to the Impact of Covid-19 on the Wine Value-Chain Survey that Vinpro conducted early in July 2021 among wine grape producers, wineries and other wine-related businesses, 58% of the 549 respondents indicated that their businesses would have to make drastic changes over the next year to be able to overcome the challenges related to Covid-19, and 22% will in all probability not be able to survive at all. Even more alarming is that 46% of black-owned brands and farms believe that their businesses won’t be able to survive the next year. “Around two thirds of all respondents’ revenue is generated from domestic wine sales, which reiterates the importance of domestic trade for the survival of the industry. The local market is of particular importance to smaller wineries and black-owned brands, which are heavily reliant on sales channels such as their tasting rooms, hospitality offering and e-commerce,” the organisation said on Thursday. Acting health minister Mmamoloko Kubayi on Friday announced that people aged 35 to 49 could register for Covid-19 vaccination from August 1. She also said government was working towards getting people vaccinated over weekends. People over 50 began receiving the jab from the beginning of this month, after the rollout to health workers, over-60s, teachers and police. Pfizer plans to ask US regulators to authorize a booster dose of its Covid-19 vaccine within the next month, based on evidence of greater risk of reinfection six months after inoculation and the spread of the highly contagious Delta variant. Dogs are being returned to shelters and adoption centers in the U.S. as Covid restrictions are lifted. For some dog owners, it’s time to go back to work, leaving no one to care for their pets, but for others it is a financial burden Ask around and no doubt someone will tell you that steaming will help you avoid and/or treat Covid-19. But is it true? Inhaling steam can help open nasal passages and ease a stuffy nose, but experts are still divided on just how effective it is as a home remedy and warned about the possible dangers it brings. Messages of condolence from some of SA's politicians and citizens have been pouring in after the death of DA MP Cameron MacKenzie. MacKenzie died of Covid-19-related complications. His death was announced on Thursday by the party's chief whip Natasha Mazzone. Flights carrying New Zealanders returning home from Australia's New South Wales region that were scheduled to start on Saturday have been called off after the Covid-19 outbreak in Sydney worsened, a New Zealand minister said." Clearly there is an escalating risk in New South Wales," New Zealand's Covid-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins said at a news conference on Friday. New Zealand has suspended quarantine-free travel with New South Wales. Australian authorities pleaded on Friday with Sydney residents to stay at home, warning a three-week lockdown may be extended as they struggle to control the Covid-19 outbreak, with the city reporting its the biggest rise in local cases for the year. Reuters Having escaped the worst when the coronavirus pandemic erupted last year, Southeast Asia is now suffering record rises in deaths and cases, while vaccination shortfalls and highly contagious variants have derailed containment efforts. As countries like Britain, Germany and France prepare to remove most remaining restrictions after devastating outbreaks, governments in Southeast Asia have been tightening measures, hoping targeted lockdowns will act as circuit-breakers in arresting dramatic spikes after cases started rising in May. Indonesia, the region's hardest hit and most populous country, recorded 38,391 cases on Thursday, six times the number a month earlier, in a week when it's daily death toll as much as doubled from the start of July. Hospitals on the most populous island Java are being pushed to the limit, oxygen supplies are low, and four of five designated Covid-19 burial grounds in the capital Jakarta are close to full. Record deaths were reported on Thursday in Malaysia, and in Thailand, where authorities proposed internal travel curbs as the Delta variant wreaking havoc in Indonesia spread quickly in and around Bangkok. A new terminal at the Thai capital's airport is being turned into a 5,000-bed field hospital. Neighbouring Myanmar saw more than 4,000 new cases for the first time on Thursday and one of its deadliest days, while Cambodia has seen its highest number of cases and deaths in the past nine days. Health experts say a low level of testing in the region's most populous countries Indonesia and the Philippines is also likely disguising the full extent of outbreaks, while Myanmar has seen a collapse in testing since February's military coup. Reuters Wall Street lost ground, with the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq pulling back from record closing highs in a broad sell-off driven by uncertainties surrounding the pace of the U.S. economic recovery. India on Friday reported 43,393 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to data from the health ministry, with active cases at 458,727. Reuters Experts say Covid-19 had no impact, yet a year of learning has been lost and the dropout rate is at a 20-year high