Adidas Africa’s Sandton flagship store in Sandton City opened to the public on June 25, and it’s a must-visit for any fans of the acclaimed brand. The Sunday Times has teamed up with adidas to celebrate the launch of the store with this great giveaway: register at no cost on the Sunday Times website and you could win an exclusive shopping experience worth R25,000. One lucky winner will win R15,000 to spend at the adidas store and R10,000 for a relative or a friend. It doesn’t end there: if you win and do not reside in the Johannesburg region, adidas will fly you and your nominee to Johannesburg and provide a night’s accommodation at the Maslow Hotel. Terms and conditions apply. To stand a chance of winning this exciting prize, simply register as a Sunday Times website user at no cost. Complete the registration process, verify your email address, and you will be entered into the draw.  Entrants must register on the Sunday Times website during the competition period to stand a chance of winning a shopping experience at the adidas flagship store in Sandton City. One randomly drawn winner will receive an adidas voucher valued at R15,000, plus a R10,000 adidas voucher for a friend or relative of their choice. If the winner does not live within a three-hour driving distance of Sandton City, adidas will pay for the winner and their friend or relative to fly economy class to Johannesburg and back again for an overnight stay. Should the winner be based outside Gauteng, travel will be arranged in line with government Covid-19 regulations.  The cost of airport shuttles, as well as an overnight stay at the Maslow Hotel in Rivonia, on a bed-and-breakfast basis, will be paid for by adidas. All other expenses will be for the winner’s account. Employees of Arena Holdings and adidas, and their direct families, cannot enter the competition. This competition runs runs from 00h01 on Wednesday June 30 2021 until 11.59pm on Sunday July 31 2021. This competition is open to all residents of  South Africa who are over the age of 18 and in possession of a valid identity document. The competition draw will take place on Tuesday August 3 2021, or as soon thereafter as possible. The winner will be notified by The Sunday Times via social media by 17h00 on Wednesday August 4 2021. Except in so far as is provided for in the Consumer Protection Act 68 of 2008, the judges’ decision is final, and no correspondence will be entered into. The promoters are adidas South Africa (Pty) Ltd (“adidas”) whose registered office is 2nd Floor, Unit 2C, Black River Park, North Park, Fir Road, Observatory, 7925, Cape Town, South Africa and The Sunday Times (“Sunday Times”), a division of Arena Holdings whose registered office is 16 Empire Rd, Parktown, Johannesburg, 2193, South Africa. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary as contained in these terms and conditions, the winner hereby indemnifies and holds the promoters, their affiliates, advertising agencies, advisers, suppliers and nominated agents harmless for and against all damages, claims, illness, loss and/or costs sustained by the winner or any third party attributable to the winner’s acts, omissions and/or wilful default. You may be required to provide personal information/data such as your full name, email address and other related information when entering this competition. The promoters and their affiliates will collect and use this personal information/data in order to enable your participation in this competition and for related online activities. Your personal information/data will be used to enter you in this competition, and you herewith consent to the promoters, their affiliates and subsidiaries’ using such information/data for marketing purposes. Further, by participating in the competition, you consent to the transfer, storage and processing of your personal information/data in South Africa and any other affiliated country in which the promoter conducts its business, which consent may be withdrawn at any time by written notification to the promoter. We will keep your personal information/data to fulfil the purposes for which it was collected or as required by applicable laws or regulations. We will not use your personal information/data for a different purpose without first obtaining your permission. We will not intentionally allow any third parties, with the exception of those noted herein, to use your personal information/data. You can choose to be excluded from direct marketing by notifying the promoters in writing or by registering a block on any registry which they are bound by law to recognise. They will not charge you a fee to update this request on its systems and will give effect to any changes requested by you as soon as reasonably possible.