The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) has welcomed the prosecution of  an Eastern Cape  health department messenger on charges relating to a personal protective equipment (PPE) tender  worth more than R23m. Ayanda Matinise, a messenger in the office of the MEC, appeared in the Mthatha specialised commercial crime court on Thursday on charges of fraud, forgery and uttering. He was released on R1,000 bail and the matter was remanded to August 31 for trial. In a statement, the SIU said the prosecution of Matinise by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) follows an intensive investigation conducted by the SIU in the health department which uncovered evidence pointing to criminal activity,  in particular fraud and forgery. The SIU  said its investigation revealed  Matinise allegedly forged the signature of the director of supply chain and awarded a tender to a service provider for supply and delivery of PPE. The service provider was to deliver N95 masks  worth  R23.4m to OR Tambo district health department offices. “The service provider submitted invoices for payment to be effected after delivering the masks. However, no payment was made as the procurement committee knew nothing about the awarding of such tender. “The service provider was then requested to bring the award letter. It was discovered  the content of the award letter, including signatures, was fraudulent.” The SIU said it  referred the evidence to the NPA and  to the Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation (the Hawks) for further attention, as required by the SIU Act. In 2020 the SIU was directed in terms of Proclamation R23 of  to investigate the procurement of or contracting for PPE services in response to the Covid-19 pandemic by state institutions and payments  made in respect thereof. The SIU said the Matinise matter is one of many PPE matters referred to the NPA and Hawks for further action. “The SIU is working closely with the NPA and Hawks in this regard and we will continue to work together to ensure  all role players identified through our investigations in the alleged PPE crimes are held accountable.” In August last year, Matinise was charged with breaching  national lockdown regulations, driving an unauthorised state vehicle, driving under the influence of alcohol and attempted bribery of police. TimesLIVE