While it has become abundantly clear over the  past few months that actress Thuso Mbedu is officially phakathi Hollywood, you  couldn't stop the great vibes  her fans and most of Mzansi  were feeling when she and Charlize Theron got together at the recent Fast and Furious 9 screening. Thuso  was on the exclusive guest list for the recent screening  hosted by the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Project (CTAOP) at Universal Studios Backlot in Universal City in Los Angeles to raise funding for the organisation. Charlize joined the  popular franchise as villain Cipher in the eighth instalment in 2017 and reprised her role in the latest film. On her Instagram, Charlize said: “Last night was a dream. Thank you so much to everyone who came out for CTAOP’s Night Out: Fast and Furious. Was such a blast to see friends in real life again, and I’m beyond grateful for the support and love shown for my foundation. A night I won’t soon forget.” To which Thuso responded, “Thank you for sharing the moment with us”, with  many heart emojis. When Thuso shared  snaps and a video snippet of the moment Charlize welcomed her on her Instagram, fans of both stars were in their feels. “What an amazing evening! Fresh air. Good vibes. Good people. Good franchise. Good energy. Good outreach project. Good everything. Thank you very much Charlize for inviting us to the screening of #Fast9. Thank you for all the work you’re doing with #CTAOP,” Thuso wrote as her caption. Check out the two gorgeous women below: The SA-born actresses' get-together came  days after Charlize expressed her pride in Thuso and the amazing talent representing SA all over the world. Charlize gushed about SA's emerging talent, saying she is proud of the nation's stars taking the world by storm. Chatting to Thuso in an interview with Vogue magazine, Charlize said she is taken aback by all the talent coming out of SA and is truly impressed by the nation's best taking it to the next level. “I’m so in awe of the work you have done. There’s this emerging SA talent coming forth right now, and I’m just really proud and really impressed. You guys are stepping in and setting that bar,” said Charlize.