As Covid-19 infection cases continue to rise across the country, actress Nokuthula Mavuso is spreading awareness and detailing her own journey with the virus. Taking to Twitter recently, the actress revealed that she had contracted Covid-19 after experiencing flu-like symptoms. In a series of tweets, Nokuthula shared progress reports with her followers from her sick bed. The KwaZulu-Natal arts and culture department is accused of spending R2.2m on personal protective equipment for the staff of a library that has not yet been built. The allegation has been made by MPL Bradley Singh, the DA's spokesperson on arts and culture in the province, and a member of the portfolio committee. Singh raised the matter in a parliamentary question on June 30, and has given KwaZulu-Natal arts and culture MEC Hlengiwe Mavimbela seven days to respond to allegations that the money was squandered on pandemic protection gear for a library that has not yet been built. Pet owners diagnosed with Covid-19 must avoid contact with their pets, as they would with other people, to limit the chances of transmitting the virus onto their animals. This is according to Dr Leon de Bruyn, president of the SA Veterinary Association (SAVA). As SA saw consecutive days of record-breaking numbers of new daily infections at the weekend and battles the new and highly transmissible Delta variant, animal owners have raised concerns around the safety of pets from Covid-19. Former president Jacob Zuma on Sunday dismissed questions about his supporters gathered outside his home in KwaZulu-Natal without observing Covid-19 regulations. Zuma, who has not received a Covid-19 vaccination, addressed media personnel at his KwaDakwadunuse home in Nkandla on Sunday night and said he was not responsible for what his supporters do even if their actions are against lockdown regulations. The former president said he believes people were angered by the recent Constitutional Court judgment ordering him to be jailed for 15 months, and there was nothing he could do about it “as a person who is very much aggrieved”. As the third wave of infections hits Gauteng hard, the provincial government has announced a Covid-19 mobile vaccine drive will be launched this week. The project aims to get as many people over the age of 50 vaccinated as soon as possible. The drive will kick off in Ekurhuleni, Tshwane and Johannesburg this week and will be  carried out with the aid of civil society partners. Mobile units will be stationed at different sites to enable people who are eligible to be vaccinated near their homes and places of work. Those who have registered and walk-ins who qualify will be helped.