As soon as day broke on Tuesday, KwaZulu-Natal residents began searching for shops that were open to buy basic supplies. Many took to social media to ask where to find milk, bread and, in most cases, milk formula for babies. Looting and violence continued as residents queued at shops that were opened for a limited time. These queues were longer than one kilometre. Eastern Cape premier Oscar Mabuyane has requested that the military be on alert to assist the police should ongoing riots spread to the province. On Tuesday, Mabuyane said he had sent the request to national government in case the need for law enforcement intervention arises. “I have asked national government to put soldiers who are based in our province on high alert for deployment to support our police officers if the need arises,” Mabuyane said. In a bid to bring the riots and looting in Gauteng under control, soldiers were deployed in Soweto on Tuesday morning. The soldiers were seen patrolling Bara taxi rank, Diepkloof Mall and various parts of Soweto. “He was the most humble and gentle child in this world. That’s the sad part. To go out like that, to get shot, just like that. Everything is gone. Everything.” Basil Govender, 62, said his son Trevor, 35, and his brother decided on Monday to go for a walk near their home in Phoenix, Durban. Trevor had recently recovered from Covid-19 and, as a health fanatic, was keen to get back into shape. However, what was meant to be the start of his journey back to health and fitness ended in tragedy when the brothers apparently got caught up in the violence that has ripped through SA this week. KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala said the call for the release of former president Jacob Zuma from prison was understandable but not a justification for looting and violence. In his update on the violent protests, widespread looting and vandalism that has swept through the province, Zikalala said it would be “good to see the former president released” but the call had to be done peacefully. Jacob Zuma’s spokesperson Mzwanele Manyi tweeted himself into hot water on Monday by saying SA was in “free fall” and that masses were ruling themselves during violent protests in parts of Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Manyi was critical of the decision by the cabinet to deploy the military in affected areas to quell the violence, destruction of infrastructure and looting of businesses. He said the protesters were unarmed though shopping centres were broken into and infrastructure and malls were torched during the demonstrations. Anglican archbishop Thabo Makgoba is concerned about the division between the “haves” and the “have-nots”, but cautions that looting is not an acceptable form of protest. “The economic ordering of society and the question of how we develop our material resources is directly relevant to the violence we have seen in Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga in the past few days,” he said on Tuesday. Hours after President Cyril Ramaphosa promised to unleash the full might of the state on  looters and protesters, chaotic scenes continued in Vosloorus in Ekurhuleni early on Tuesday. Ekurhuleni metro police department (EMPD) spokesperson Kelebogile Thepa confirmed that an officer who was shot during the violence on Monday had died. Thepa said officers were responding to mass looting at Sam Ntuli Mall in Katlehong on Monday evening when the mob fired live rounds at them. Vaccination sites around Gauteng were forced to halt operations as unrest and violent protests spread across the province. This is according to the provincial health department, which announced the disruption of services on Monday. The department said it was inundated with calls from residents who require ambulances from different parts of the province, but road blockades and attacks on paramedics made it impossible for the service to respond. A blood bank at a Durban mall was looted on Monday evening with looters making off with valuable equipment as President Cyril Ramaphosa was addressing the nation on the unrest in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. “While we were watching President Ramaphosa addressing the nation on TV, we saw people coming to our donor centre in Queensmead Mall in Durban. “They broke in and took some valuables,” regional marketing manager at the SA National Blood Service Simphiwe Cele said. Many on social media have dubbed President Cyril Ramaphosa's address on Monday night a miss, saying he did not show strong leadership qualities. Ramaphosa delivered his second address in two days, in the wake of ongoing looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. In his address, Ramaphosa pledged to restore calm across the country and authorised the deployment of the SA Defence Force (SANDF) to help the SA Police Service. Businesses and homeowners who have Sasria cover will have their legitimate claims met, and in the case of smaller claims, they will be paid out within a week. That was the undertaking from Sasria (the SA Special Risks Insurance Association) MD Cedric Masondo on Monday. The state-owned entity provides cover for loss or damage to insured property as a direct result of civil unrest, including rioting, strike action and public disorder — and it’s the only SA insurer that does so. Sasria does not do direct business with the public, but is included in most commercial and consumer insurance policies. Social media users have responded with shock and anger at the looting of former Orlando Pirates star Lucky Lekgwathi’s restaurant this week. The star opened up Grootman by Lucky Lekgwathi in Kliptown, Soweto, earlier this year, after hanging up his boots in 2016. Sunday started off as a normal day for Suhayl Essa. The emergency room doctor started his shift at the Hillbrow community health centre at 8am. “There were a few patients who had a few fights the night before — I don't know where they got the alcohol from — and we had one or two suspected Covid patients,” he said. By midday, however, patients began streaming into the clinic, which operates as a first-line centre for trauma cases. The patients are either stitched-up there or transferred to other hospitals if they needed to be admitted. “We were seeing stuff on social media and there were mobs running in every direction around the clinic,” he said. “Then we started hearing gunshots. Patients started piling in one after the other.”