Scores of people from all over Alexandra on Friday queued for hours to get inside the Alex Mall, which was the last one standing after recent looting and destruction. There was no social distancing in the almost 1km queue outside the mall, with women and children separated from men. When TimesLIVE visited, Lucy Jonathan, who runs Lucy’s Kitchen from Alexandra, had been waiting in the queue for almost two hours so she could buy spice for potato chips. The Road Freight Association (RFA) has welcomed the reopening of the N3 on Friday morning and said this would allow the industry to move the essential products that could not be transported since the highway was closed. “We are extremely appreciative that the N3 has been opened. It allows us to get the essentials, prioritised for now, moving into the distribution hubs that can then get to the badly affected areas, especially into KwaZulu-Natal,” RFA CEO Gavin Kelly said. Dave Logan, CEO of the South African Association of Freight Fowarders (SAAFF), said the products which needed to be delivered urgently included pharmaceutical products, diapers, blood and fuel. Wealthy KwaZulu-Natal residents chartered private planes and fled the province this week amid violent looting and fires which rocked the province and ahead of impending food, medication and fuel shortages. Driven by fear and anxiety, some residents forked out as much as R180,000 for private flights to Cape Town and R90,000 to Gauteng. Pilots at Virginia Airport in Durban North told TimesLIVE they had been overwhelmed with private trips for clients due to the unrest which gripped areas in the city. After a week of chaos and violent protests that led to the destruction of properties and infrastructure, scores of South Africans in communities are uniting behind a cause to clean up in the hope of rebuilding and reopening their local businesses. The presidency said on Thursday President Cyril Ramaphosa will conduct an oversight assessment in eThekwini, KwaZulu-Natal. “The president will interact with the provincial government and security forces. The president’s visit follows government’s engagement throughout the week with different sectors of society, including organised business, interfaith leaders and political parties represented in parliament,” said the presidency. Law enforcement authorities have given the all-clear to fully reopen the N3 between KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The all-important route connecting the two provinces had to be shut because of civil unrest related to the #FreeJacobZuma campaign which resulted in a large number of trucks being looted and torched. Thania Dhoogra, operations manager of N3 Toll Concession, said on Friday: “Law enforcement has issued the instruction to reopen the N3 toll route in its entirety between Cedara in KwaZulu-Natal and Heidelberg in Gauteng. Controversial businessman Duduzane Zuma's advice to looters has seen him criticised by many, with puppet Chester Missing the latest to weigh in. This week a video of Duduzane advising people to “loot responsibly” went viral online. In the twelve-minute-long video shared on Instagram, Duduzane was heard commenting on the violent unrest and looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The unrest that gripped KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng was “quite clearly instigated”. “All of these incidents of unrest and looting were instigated. There were people, who instigated it. Police have a line of sight of what was happening. We are after those people. We have identified some of them,” President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Friday. However, he admitted that “we don’t know what their full intentions are”. Police minister Bheki Cele has issued a stern warning for residents in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, saying they will have to produce receipts for the new items in their houses or they will be arrested. Over the past few days, the unrest in both provinces resulted in malls being looted and properties being damaged. Looting and violence broke out in Gauteng at the weekend after days of protests in KwaZulu-Natal linked to the incarceration of former president Jacob Zuma. Thousands of SANDF troops are pouring into KwaZulu-Natal en masse on Friday by air to help stabilise the violence-torn province. Early on Friday morning, members of the navy’s Maritime Reaction Squadron flew into the province, according to social media posts by the SANDF. Under Operation Prosper the military is deploying 25,000 soldiers, including reserve force members, across KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng, which has also been gripped by deadly violence. Residents form massive queues, 16 July 20201, outside Alex Mall, in Johannesburg. Residents who haven’t been able to buy groceries all week are lining up ahead of the weekend.  Pictures by Alaister Russell/The Sunday Times South Africa's Massmart said on Friday protesters had looted 41 of its stores and two of its distribution centres, with four sites suffering significant damage from arson, in some of the country's worst unrest in years. "The full extent of the damage is still being assessed," Massmart said in a statement, adding stores in vulnerable areas had been temporarily closed and it had insurance cover in place to minimise losses. Reuters President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Friday visit the City of eThekwini in KwaZulu-Natal after days of unrest that have caused enormous damage. According to a presidency statement on Friday morning, Ramaphosa’s first visit to the province since the outbreak of the unrest late last week was meant to “assess the impact of recent [unrest] and the deployment of security forces”. Ramaphosa is expected to meet with the provincial government and the security forces, said the presidency. As residents scrambled for food supplies due to unrest in Durban, at least 20 businesses and non-government organisations and non-profit organisations, including Muslims for Humanity and the Natal Memon Jamaat Foundation (NMJ), distributed 40,000 loaves of bread and 40,000 litres to communities. Muslims for Humanity chairperson Mohamed Gany said the plan to bring food supplies to Durban from Gauteng began on Tuesday. By then numerous warehouses, factories and shops had been looted and torched throughout KwaZulu-Natal. The violent protests and looting of businesses in parts of Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal were instigated by individuals who used the hungry “to destroy the little that keeps communities going”, says Thuli Madonsela. The former public protector commended those who have resisted the destruction of infrastructure and looting of businesses in their communities, saying while it is true that millions live in hunger and suffer unemployment, the ransacking of shops and infrastructure are criminal acts masquerading as protests. “Salute to South Africans standing their ground against thuggery and looting masquerading as protest. It’s true many people are hungry, but being instigated by selfish leaders to destroy the little that keeps communities going, makes no sense,” she tweeted. eThekwini Municipality's bus service resumed operations in “low risk” areas on Friday after unrest that gripped the city. “Following consultation with bus operators, the municipality will reintroduce minimal services based on risk and security assessments to ensure the safety of staff and passengers. Commuters are urged to be mindful that the shortage of fuel, cleanup of areas, and availability of staff might affect operations. “It is expected that the taxi operators will also begin to run their routes. The city has partnered with the industry to ensure that the ranks are clean for commuters,” said municipal spokesperson Lindiwe Khuzwayo. The ugly scenes of the past week call for earnest introspection from South Africans In this episode of Sunday Times Politics Weekly, there can only be one topic worth delving into: this week we focus all our attention on SA's current looting crisis and how it came about. With violence being so obvious a danger after Zuma was jailed, those tasked to protect us have a lot to answer for As people start feeling threatened, their latent prejudices come to the fore. This does no-one any good