Australia's two largest states reported sharp increases in new Covid-19 cases with more than half the country's population now under stay-at-home orders China rejected on Thursday a World Health Organisation (WHO) plan for a second phase of an investigation into the origin of the coronavirus, which includes the hypothesis it could have escaped from a Chinese laboratory, a top health official said. The WHO this month proposed a second phase of studies into the origins of the coronavirus in China, including audits of laboratories and markets in the city of Wuhan, calling for transparency from authorities. “We will not accept such an origins-tracing plan as it, in some aspects, disregards common sense and defies science,” Zeng Yixin, vice minister of the National Health Commission (NHC), told reporters. Zeng said he was taken aback when he first read the WHO plan because it lists the hypothesis that a Chinese violation of laboratory protocols had caused the virus to leak during research. “We hope the WHO would seriously review the considerations and suggestions made by Chinese experts and truly treat the origin tracing of the COVID-19 virus as a scientific matter, and get rid of political interference,” Zeng said.China opposed politicising the study, he said. The origin of the virus remains contested among experts. The first known cases emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December 2019. Reuters President Joe Biden pleaded with Americans on Wednesday to get vaccinated, as rising Covid-19 cases threaten to undermine progress against the pandemic and slow the country's economic rebound. “Look, it's real simple. We have a pandemic for those who haven't got a vaccination. It's that basic, that simple,” Biden said at a town-hall event in Ohio that was broadcast on CNN.” Ten thousand people have recently died. Nine thousand nine hundred and fifty of them, thereabouts, are people who hadn't been vaccinated,” he said. Biden fielded roughly a dozen questions from Democrats and Republicans about the economy and crime, infrastructure and the filibuster, in a Cincinnati district that Trump won by a heavy margin. The entire audience was vaccinated, the news network noted. Swiftly rising coronavirus cases across the US and abroad have fuelled fears of a resurgent pandemic and rattled stock markets as the highly contagious Delta variant appears to be taking hold. Many of the new US outbreaks are in parts of the country where Covid-19 vaccinations have lagged. The White House's vaccination efforts have met waves of disinformation and scepticism. Biden expressed optimism that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may approve new vaccines for children under 12 as soon as the end of August, ahead of previous estimates. “My expectation talking to the group of scientists we put together ... is that sometime maybe in the beginning of the school year, at the end of August, beginning of September, October, they'll get a final approval,” Biden said. He also said that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) would likely issue guidance encouraging children who have not been vaccinated against the coronavirus to wear masks in schools. Reuters Many people are familiar with the mind tricks Covid-19 can play on us. How many times have you been convinced you contracted the coronavirus because you felt a scratch in your throat, only to be perfectly healthy? That said, you can’t be too careful because even if you’ve had the vaccine, you can still catch Covid-19. It’s also possible that you may have been infected with the coronavirus before having the jab but weren’t aware you had it. Furthermore, Dr Susan Louw, a haematopathologist at SA’s National Health Laboratory Service, explains there’s a window period after receiving the vaccine in which your body has to mount an immune response to Covid-19 to protect you from it. ​“It takes about two to three weeks for your body to get the army of antibodies ready to fight Covid-19,” she said.