SA specialists offer high-quality care through their expertise and knowledge. But in the face of certain life-threatening or life-changing conditions for which treatment may not be well documented, or may require new treatment methods, access to a global medical expert for a second opinion may be of value. In these cases, seamless access to internationally recognised experts in certain subfields of medicine is important. This is why Discovery Health has partnered with The Clinic by Cleveland Clinic, one of the most respected medical centres in the world. This partnership gives Discovery Health Medical Scheme members and their doctors online access to international expert specialists (based at Cleveland Clinic) who review each patient case quickly and provide full feedback. Once the online second-opinion process has been initiated, a dedicated Discovery Health case manager handles the process of interaction with Cleveland Clinic in full. When does The Clinic by Cleveland Clinic second-opinion service apply? Scheme members and their specialists can ask for a second opinion: The second-opinion service is available in relation to more than 1,200 serious or life-threatening conditions, including: Once a Cleveland Clinic-based, board-certified medical expert has examined all information shared, they collate a second-opinion report within about 14 business days (as far as possible), which includes: Once sent, the treating doctor can discuss the report’s recommendations with the Cleveland Clinic physician. What does the service cost? The cost of an online second opinion from Cleveland Clinic is $565. If Cleveland Clinic requires a pathology review to complete the consultation, an additional $180 will apply. Discovery Health Medical Scheme funds 100% of the cost on the Executive plan and 50% of the cost on other plans, and this payment does not affect day-to-day benefits. Find out more about The Clinic by Cleveland Clinic’s second opinion service and how members are covered. You can also go to www.discovery.co.za to the Get Help feature to ask Discovery a question about the service. And, you can also chat to Discovery 24/7 on WhatsApp (save 086-0756-756 on your phone and say “Hi” to start chatting). This article was paid for by Discovery Health.