LISTEN TO THE STORY HERE: Just 18 minutes before  four shots rang out  in Nuuanu in Honolulu, Hawaii, on  April 14,  KwaZulu-Natal rugby player Lindani Myeni  had been on the phone with his wife Lindsay. He had told his wife  he would be home “soon”, but Lindsay and  their two young children would never hear from  him again. Myeni was shot by  officers in Honolulu’s police force while they were responding to a call about an alleged burglary in progress. He was outside and unarmed at the time of the shooting. Police shootings have been a hot  issue in the US for many years. Research  by renowned  US newspaper  the Washington Post and   business data platform Statista indicate  fatal police shootings in the country  are increasing, with  292 civilians  shot — 62 of them black — in the first four months of 2021. In 2020, there were 1,021 fatal police shootings. The rate of fatal police shootings among black Americans is much higher than that for any other ethnicity, standing at 36 fatal shootings per million of the population as of April 2021. However, there is little outrage for Myeni, or sympathy for his widow and children. Unlike the  international news feeds that were overflowing with reports following the deaths of  black Americans  Daunte Wright and George Floyd, the international community is not screaming for investigations into  Myeni’s death. There  are unanswered questions around the night he died, including: For his widow and now single mother of two, none of it makes sense. The only way she will receive answers is if South Africans do not allow  her husband’s memory to fade  into obscurity. Today on Boots on the ground: Behind SA’s biggest headlines, we  bring Lindani Myeni to mind once again. We will relive the day before he was shot, we will consider the available information from the shooting, and we will  look into his character as a new family man, hopeful immigrant, skilled rugby player and spiritual Zulu man. Subscribe for free episodes: iono.fm | Spotify | Player.fm | Pocket Casts. TimesLIVE