Mkhize: Mass vaccine will see a slow start, but process is ready to roll Health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Sunday it may be a slow start in the beginning of the the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccinations but the numbers should pick up in the course of the month. The second phase of the vaccinations was scheduled to begin this week. Mkhize said vaccine administrators may need to get comfortable with the vaccines before we could see a steady incline in the number of vaccines being administered daily. Gauteng and Western Cape release lists of sites for phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccinations With Gauteng reported to officially be in the grips of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, phases 1B and two of the mass vaccination programme are scheduled to be rolled out from Monday. The Gauteng health department said phase 1B of the vaccinations would see   healthcare workers who had not yet been vaccinated, traditional health practitioners and staff employed at funeral parlours being vaccinated. Phase 2 of the vaccination rollout programme will target vulnerable people who are 60 years and older. Healthcare workers and officials are downplaying the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections despite steadily rising case numbers in most of SA’s provinces. The health department said last week that while the upward trend in cases across SA was “worrying”, the country was not yet in a third wave of the pandemic. “The Free State, Gauteng, Northern Cape and North West are of particular concern, but every province, with the notable exception of the Eastern Cape, has at least one district of concern,” the department said. Bodies of Covid-19 victims have been found dumped in some Indian rivers, a state government said in a letter seen by Reuters, the first official acknowledgement of an alarming practice it said may stem from poverty and fear of the disease in villages. Images of corpses drifting down the Ganges river, which Hindus consider holy, have shocked a nation reeling under the world's worst surge in infections. Although media have linked the recent increase in the numbers of such bodies to the pandemic, the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, home to 240 million people, has until now not publicly revealed the cause of the deaths. Australia is sticking to plans to start re-opening to the rest of the world only from the middle of next year, officials said on Sunday, resisting mounting pressure to end the closure of international borders. In March 2020, Australia closed its borders to non-nationals and non-residents and has since been allowing only limited international arrivals, mainly citizens returning from abroad. "All the way through we will be guided by the medical advice," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said at a televised briefing. "We will be guided by the economic advice."