Uthando Nesthembu star and popular polygamist Musa Mseleku and one of his wives, MaYeni, have come out to dismiss divorce claims, saying they’ve never been happier and will only be separated by death. The popular polygamist clarified there was no divorce on the cards for him and any of his four wives. This after reports flooded the net and social media platforms over the weekend claiming there was trouble in paradise between Musa and his second wife. Speaking to TshisaLIVE, a fuming Musa said he didn’t understand how the rumour could have been ignited, labelling the reports as attention-seeking and clickbait. “Let start off by stating categorically that MaYeni and I are not getting a divorce. We are happy and just like we said in our vows, only death will  us part. We are still here and we are happy. “I have come to a realisation that since we became popular, people tend to want to use our brand to become relevant again when their careers are failing or they want  attention. I have  wracked my brain trying to figure out what could have led to this person writing such blatant lies but I can’t come to anything because we are happy. These people literally created a story out of nowhere,” Musa said. After they saw the reports, Musa and MaYeni also took to their YouTube channel to set the record straight. MaYeni said: “Whatever  was said, is not true. We are still an item. We are still doing great at the moment.” “We have no idea where the story came from and it is sad that someone just decided to create such a story and didn’t even bother to ask us what the truth is,” Musa added. Watch their video below: Musa said he recently posted a video on Instagram in which he was trying to imitate one of the Ukhozi FM soccer commentators. In the video, he talks about how the situation is bad as people fail at isithembu. However, he said he did not imply in any way that there was trouble in his paradise and fails to see how that video could have been interpreted in the way the publication turned it into a divorce story. The reality TV star confirmed he was getting legal counsel to deal with the publication and “planned to take them to task”.