France's Covid-19 contact-tracing app has now been downloaded by 16.5 million people, or 24.6% of the French population, the minister for digital affairs said on Sunday, surpassing the minimum level it needed to work efficiently. The "Tous Anti-Covid" (all against Covid) app, initially launched last June under the name "StopCovid", will grant access to a "health pass" that people can use to attend sports events, festivals and theme parks with large crowds. This pass, which was approved by French lawmakers earlier this month, will come into effect from June 9.It will provide proof that a person has either been vaccinated against the coronavirus, holds a recent negative PCR test, or is recovering from Covid-19 and therefore has natural antibodies. "When people will check this health pass, they won't see any of these details, they'll just see green or red, which means health data are protected," Cedric O told Franceinfo radio. The minister previously said 20% of the population needed to download the app for contact tracing to work efficiently. The European Union reached a deal on Thursday over Covid-19 certificates designed to open up tourism across the 27-nation bloc this summer, as a rapid pick-up of vaccinations allows widespread easing of coronavirus restrictions. "We conducted a first test with France, Sweden, Malta, Luxemburg and Croatia which has technically confirmed they were working," Cedric O said, adding the certificates would come into effect on June 26. Reuters India's capital New Delhi will start relaxing its strict coronavirus lockdown next week if new cases continue to drop in the city, its chief minister said on Sunday. The nation on Sunday reported 240,842 new infections nationwide over 24 hours - the lowest daily new cases in more than a month - and 3,741 deaths. For weeks, India has battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19 that has crippled its health system and led to shortages of oxygen supplies. New Delhi, one of the worst hit cities, went into lockdown on April 20, but new cases have declined in recent weeks and test positivity rate has fallen under 2.5%, compared to 36% last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. "If cases continue to drop for a week, then from May 31 we will start the process of unlocking," Kejriwal told a news conference. Reuters The Western Cape plans to ramp up vaccination registration in an attempt to make the process easier for older or vulnerable people who might not have access to technology. Germany's CureVac expects European approval of its COVID-19 vaccine in June at the latest and is working to expand production capacity, the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper quoted a company spokeswoman as saying. Since starting out in 2000, the biotech company has focused on so-called messenger RNA (mRNA), a drug and vaccine technology that has also become the recent focus of the European Union's procurement negotiations. The mRNA approach has been validated by the wide use of coronavirus vaccines developed by pioneers BioNTech and its partner Pfizer, as well as by Moderna, in Europe and North America. But more volumes will be needed to boost lagging immunisation coverage in Europe and potentially for repeated booster shots. "We hope for approval in the course of the second quarter," the newspaper quoted the spokeswoman as saying in comments released on Sunday. "We are working to further expand production capacity with a growing network of partners." Reuters Thai border controls will tighten after the discovery of three local cases of the South African Covid-19 variant stemming from illegal border crossings, authorities said on Sunday, as the country grapples to contain its worst coronavirus outbreak yet. The first local case of the South African variant, known as B.1.351, was detected on May 4 in a 32-year-old Thai man after he was visited by family who entered Thailand from Malaysia through an informal border crossing, the director-general of the disease control department said. Movement of people has been restricted in the affected district and only two other cases of the South African variant, out of 81 cases, have been detected there since the start of May, Opas Karnkawinpong said. "The South African variant discovered is similar to those found in Malaysia," Opas said. While there are concerns the variant may threaten the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, Opas said mass inoculations will still be effective in reducing the severity and rate of fatality from the disease. Reuters Some teenagers and young adults who received Covid-19 vaccines experienced heart inflammation, a US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advisory group said, recommending further study of the rare condition. Taiwan's abrupt decision to add 400 new domestic Covid-19 cases has prompted catcalls from opposition politicians and jokes online about fishy statistics, putting the government on the back foot to explain where the number came from. Taiwan is dealing with a spike in cases after months of keeping the pandemic well under control, with restrictions in place across the island to limit gatherings. Health Minister Chen Shih-chung announced 721 new domestic infections on Saturday, including 400 infections over the past six days whose positive tests had not been included in previous reports due to a delay following a spike in cases. Chen said the "regression calibration" was needed to more accurately reflect the state of infections, while the trend was stable. But the move went down poorly with Taiwan's opposition parties, who said Chen was inventing words and spreading fear." Reuters China reported 19 new Covid-19 cases on May 22, up from 10 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday. The National Health Commission said in a statement that 18 of the new cases were imported infections. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, was 25, including one local case. One new local infection was reported in Luan city in the eastern province of Anhui, local health authorities said late Saturday. The patient was a close contact of a previous case and was under centralised quarantine since May 13. The one local asymptomatic case was reported in Shenzhen in the southern province of Guangdong, who was found to be linked to imported cases based on preliminary study, Shenzhen health authorities said on Sunday. Total confirmed Covid-19 cases in Mainland China stand at 90,973, while the death toll is unchanged at 4,636. Reuters India on Sunday reported 240,842 new coronavirus infections over the last 24 hours and deaths rose by 3,741. Total infections in the country stood at 26.5 million while the country's total death toll was at 299,266, according to data from the health ministry. India leads the world in the daily average number of new deaths reported, accounting for one in every three deaths reported worldwide each day, according to a Reuters tally. Reuters The death toll from Covid-19 in Latin America and the Caribbean passed 1 million people on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, with the pandemic worsening in the part of the world with the highest per capita death rate. In SA, health-system inequities and the urban-rural divide will haunt the rollout, say experts — and an access row at the University of Cape Town is seen as an indication of things to come. While the first week of SA's vaccine rollout has been given a tentative thumbs-up, vaccinations and registrations need to be ramped up quickly, say health experts. More than 117,000 people got the jab this week, as infections continue to soar. Some were health-care workers who had not been vaccinated during the first phase, but most were people over the age of 60. About 155 public vaccination sites were operating this week, and 22 private sector sites.