Malaysia’s worsening outbreak may force doctors to allot intensive care beds to patients with higher chances of recovery amid a record surge in new cases, health director-general Noor Hisham Abdullah said. “The number of ICU beds at Covid hospitals, quarantine and treatment centres is declining and may be inadequate,” he said in a statement. The health ministry “has warned of possible situations where doctors will have to make difficult choices to prioritise ICU beds for patients with higher recovery potential than those with lower recovery potential (poor prognosis).” The grim outlook comes ahead of a two-week nationwide lockdown aimed at controlling an outbreak that has caused a record 1,144 deaths from Covid in May. New cases topped 9,000 on Saturday, a fifth day of record highs that has stretched the nation’s health services to a breaking point. Bloomberg Italy reported 44 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday, down from 83 the day before, and the daily tally of new infections fell to 2,949 from 3,351, the health ministry said. Italy has registered 126,046 deaths linked to Covid-19 since its outbreak in February last year, the second-highest toll in Europe after Britain and the seventh-highest in the world. The country has reported 4.216 million cases to date. Reuters Taiwan's government has signed deals with two local companies to provide up to 20 million doses of their Covid-19 vaccines, the official Central News Agency said on Sunday, in a boost to the island's pandemic fight. The news comes days after the Chinese-claimed island blamed Beijing week for blocking a deal earlier this year for BioNTech SE vaccines, which China denies. After recording just a handful of daily infections for months, Taiwan is dealing with relatively large numbers of community transmissions, though infection rates are starting to fall. It has only vaccinated around 1% of its more than 23 million people but has almost 30 million shots on order, from AstraZeneca Plc, Moderna Inc and two domestic firms. The Central News Agency said the government had on Friday signed deals with Medigen Vaccine Biologics Corp and United Biomedical Inc for five million doses each, and had oral agreements for another five million each, for a total of 20 million shots. Reuters President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Sunday night address the nation about the Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement on Sunday, presidential spokesperson Tyrone Seale confirmed that Ramaphosa will address the nation at 7pm. This comes amid a rise in the number of infections with fears of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. Kenya has extended its nightly curfew by 60 days to slow the spread of Covid-19, the interior ministry said on Sunday. The move followed a decision by President Uhuru Kenyatta in late March to extend the 10pm to 4am curfew. A ban on political gatherings and processions that could turn into super spreader events was also extended for 60 days, as was a prohibition on overnight events and vigils, the ministry said. When the first coronavirus cases were confirmed in Kenya in March 2020, the government closed schools, imposed a curfew, banned public gatherings and on multiple occasions restricted movement in and out of the most-affected regions. Some restrictions, such as on schools, were eventually relaxed. The ban on public gatherings and processions and overnight meetings will stay in force, the ministry said. Kenya has recorded 170,485 cases and 3,141 deaths, ministry of health data showed on Saturday, with a positivity rate of 8.9%. Covid-19 vaccinations began on March 5 and so far 968,733 people have received their first dose. Reuters The decision to lift final lockdown measures in England on June 21 will be made after data on infection, hospitalisation, vaccination and new variants are assessed, vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi said on Sunday. "We will share the evidence with the country on the 14th of June to basically explain exactly where we are on infection rates, on hospitalisation, and of course, sadly, on deaths," he told the BBC's Andrew Marr. "We have to be cautious; we have to look at the data and share it with the country." Reuters I cannot hide my conflict and my anger. Both my parents died in December last year due to Covid. The image of my mother's body at the morgue haunts me every single day. It inspires me too, as though to send a message: Carry on, my son. We spoke two days before she died when she called from a hospital in the Eastern Cape, where she was in high care. She was in good spirits and wanted to know how I was doing. She also asked about my father, who had tested positive and was isolated at home with me. She was getting better, the doctor said. She needed to speak less, so we minimised phone calls. Two days later, a call from my sister wakes me up. It's around 5am. "She's gone." My mother waited a week in high care. She needed to be moved to an intensive care unit. No ICU beds were available in any of the hospitals nearby, private or public. The availability of ICU beds is a big part of the story about our response to the pandemic. SA had 3,200 when the first case of Covid was confirmed. We went into a draconian level 5 lockdown in March last year. The plan was to buy time, limit its spread while the public health infrastructure was being prepared. A month later, I inquire while serving as a government spin doctor: how many beds now? About 3,300, I am told. OK, a whole level 5 lockdown later and only 100 more beds? This is tough and inefficient. It is all very technical, epidemiology. While we are manifestly in our third wave of the pandemic in SA already, we are not officially there yet. We will be when our rolling seven-day average of new Covid cases reaches 30% of what they were at the peak of the second wave. We topped out the second wave with a rolling average of 19,042 new cases on January 11. On January 14, deaths attributed to Covid reached a staggering 578, probably a sizeable undercount. On Thursday the National Institute for Communicable Diseases counted 4,424 new cases. When the seven-day new-case rolling average gets past 5,700 we’re officially in the wave. Just a few more days then. Does it even matter? It should draw us closer together as citizens and to an extent it has. Broadcaster Redi Thlabi has been magnificent in herding the unregistered and aged and poor into every queue she can find. But with an often dishonest and profoundly opaque government insisting on running the show she can make only the smallest of differences. In the distant hills and hidden villages of this vast country, people are sick already. There is pain and anguish everywhere. Many experts say the third wave will be worse than the second. Let’s assume it will just be equally bad. On May 17 SA started its national mass vaccination rollout. This was after delays because of a vaccine shortage. While we welcome the start, the snail’s pace is worrying. There are reports of people waiting for confirmation of when and where to go, and others not knowing what to do, particularly elderly people unfamiliar with the technology. Whatever methods our government has used to mobilise and communicate, it has not reached the targeted people. Why did it opt for a modern way of communicating, knowing SA’s levels of poverty; many people don’t have smartphones or laptops. The government also failed to communicate clearly about people with underlying conditions and disabilities. When dealing with the magnitude of Covid, bad planning and communication cannot be accepted; people’s lives are at risk with every minute that passes. We are not oblivious of the enormity of the task, but it seems the government was not fully prepared. SA recorded 4,515 Covid-19 cases in the past 24-hour cycle and 70 deaths. Health minister Zweli Mkhize said the total number of those vaccinated under the Sisonke Programme stood at 479,768 and those vaccinated under Phase two was 418,187. The number of South Africans who received the Pfizer vaccine first dose is 898,955. The World Health Organisation's top emergency expert says the search for the origin of the coronavirus is being "poisoned by politics", days after US President Joe Biden ordered aides to find answers. Since the virus outbreak that emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December 2019, scientists have been trying to solve the puzzle of how the virus originated. "We would like for everyone out there to separate, if they can, the politics of this issue from the science. This whole process is being poisoned by politics," Mike Ryan told reporters. The third wave of Covid-19 has taken hold and could be significantly worse than the second, experts told the Sunday Times. Vaccinations started too late to protect most South Africans from this wave. "I'm concerned we are sitting on a potential third wave which is 25% higher than the second wave," said Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee member professor Ian Sanne, an infectious diseases specialist who heads Right to Care, a health organisation at the Covid frontline.