Through its driver rewards programme, Vitality Drive, Discovery Insure has given real value back to its clients. As of December 2020, Discovery Insure has rewarded its growing Vitality Drive client base with R1bn in fuel cash back, equivalent to about 66-million litres of fuel. Clients can earn up to 50% of their monthly fuel spend back by driving well with Vitality Drive. The better clients drive, the higher their fuel cash back, and the lower their road accident risk. This earned cash back shows the success of Discovery Insure’s shared-value insurance model in the short-term insurance industry, as it proves to be a valuable incentive for driver improvement. “When clients remain consistently engaged in the programme, driver fatality risk reduces significantly,” says Precious Nduli, Discovery Insure: head of technical marketing and Vitality Drive Engagement. “Clients who have a Vitality Drive Sensor installed in their cars improve their driving behaviour by about 15% during the first month it’s used. Thanks to the data we get about our clients’ driving habits, we've gained valuable insights and found our best drivers have between 39% and 44% fewer severe accidents than drivers who are less engaged in the programme. This leads to cost savings of up to 54% for us, and additional value in the form of rewards and cash back.” “Clients who insure with Discovery Insure benefit from comprehensive insurance for every life-stage and lifestyle, bespoke optional features to tailor insurance to their specific needs and rewards for good driving through Vitality Drive. We insure more than R375bn for about 269,000 cars,” says Discovery Insure chief executive Anton Ossip. “Our growth and success during the past nine years can largely be attributed to the Shared-Value Insurance model. Discovery Insure and the Vitality Drive programme is underpinned by the use of powerful rewards and incentives, state-of-the-art technology and big data; as well as our innovation culture. “The success of this insurance model has enabled us to extend our business to commercial insurance, the car rental business, CSI programmes, and exciting international opportunities,” says Ossip. “We’ve wanted to do things differently in the short-term insurance world: make people safer; be more proactive about risk rather than reactive; create a journey our customers would enjoy, and reduce the frustrations that short-term insurance is associated with. “We also wanted to develop a driving programme that rewards clients for playing their role in making roads safer — and we continue to improve our Vitality Drive programme to ultimately create a nation of great drivers. Our latest achievements and milestones certainly prove we're on the right road.” This article was paid for by Discovery Insure.