State of disaster extended for another month The national state of disaster has been extended for another month, until June 15. Co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma gazetted the extension on Friday. Non-healthcare workers who “jumped” the queue and got vaccinated did not commit “widespread fraud”. This is according to the Western Cape head of health, Dr Keith Cloete, who addressed the outrage over reports of non-healthcare workers receiving the Covid-19 jabs this week. On social media, poet Lebo Mashile and a technology and motoring journalist were among those accused of “jumping the queue”, after they shared that they had been vaccinated. Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms who end up in intensive care units (ICU) in hospital are at risk of contracting an invasive fungal infection that might influence their outcomes and affect treatment. This is according to a recently published study which suggests these fungal co-infections in Covid-19 patients on ventilators may contribute to their high mortality rate. Prof Carlien Pohl-Albertyn and Dr Obinna Ezeokoli, from the Pathogenic Yeast Research Group in the department of microbiology and biochemistry at the University of the Free State (UFS), recently published an article on the incidence of fungal infection in Covid-19 patients. The next stage of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout starts on Monday at state facilities, while those hoping to get the jab at private sector sites will need to wait another week. This is according to an update from the SA Medical Research Council (SAMRC) and shared by the Gauteng health department. People older than 60 and health workers are eligible for this imminent phase. Under the Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Sisonke Protocol, 455,169 health workers had been vaccinated by late Thursday. The origin of the novel coronavirus is still unclear and there is not yet enough evidence to say conclusively if it occurred naturally or was caused by a laboratory leak, a group of leading scientists said in a letter. The novel coronavirus, which emerged in China in late 2019, has killed 3.34 million people, cost the world trillions of dollars in lost income and upended daily life for billions of people. “More investigation is still needed to determine the origin of the pandemic,” said the 18 scientists, including Ravindra Gupta, a clinical microbiologist at the University of Cambridge and Jesse Bloom, who studies the evolution of viruses at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. The number of recorded Covid-19 infections in India climbed above 24 million on Friday amid reports that the highly transmissible coronavirus mutant first detected in the country was spreading across the globe. The Indian B.1.617 variant of the virus has been found in cases in eight countries of the Americas, including Canada and the United States, said Jairo Mendez, a WHO infectious diseases expert. People infected by the variant included travellers in Panama and Argentina who had arrived from India or Europe. In the Caribbean, cases of the Indian variant have been detected in Aruba, Dutch St Maarten and the French department of Guadeloupe. New Covid-19 data released by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) shows infections rising in parts of SA. The NICD is a division of the national health laboratory service and according to the institute, SA has not entered a new wave. Vaccines aren't being distributed equitably, putting the vulnerable and healthcare workers at risk: Tedros Ghebreyesus