South Africans have expressed a variety of reactions to finance minister Tito Mboweni getting vaccinated. Mboweni, 62, received his first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine this week at the Dr CN Phatudi Hospital in Limpopo. The vaccine was administered by the province’s health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba. Mboweni received his jab along with deputy transport minister  Dikeledi Magadzi, who got her shot at Pietersburg Hospital. The two are among 700,904 citizens who have been vaccinated in SA since phase 2 of the vaccine rollout started. The country  started phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout programme last week  which is set to  continue until October 17. The second phase is targeted at the elderly and people with comorbidities. The snaps were shared amid a proposed strike by the KwaZulu-Natal Private Ambulances Association (KZNPAA). On Wednesday, KZNPAA expressed  frustration with the province's department of health for not providing the vaccine for all paramedics. “KZNPAA will be protesting about not having being vaccinated as patient-facing front-line workers, but most government employees have been vaccinated. “This government did not release vaccines to the private sector on time so that they could operate as they wish, disregarding the private sector especially the small businesses,” said the association. The association said it would hand over a memorandum of demands to  KwaZulu-Natal health MEC Nomagugu Simelane. “We are also going to be joined by Pasa (Private Ambulance Services Association) from Gauteng to add to our voice because this is a national regulation that affects all the private ambulance services negatively,” it said. Earlier this year, former DA MP Phumzile Van Damme  said politicians should not be among the first people to receive the vaccine after  this was suggested on social media. “I disagree. I am a politician and very aware of my standing compared to others. I have economic privilege that together with if, and I do, follow safety protocols, makes me low risk. Being a politician doesn’t make me special and deserving of first dibs when it comes to saving lives,” she said at the time. On social media, pictures of Mboweni receiving the jab drew mixed reactions. Here is a snapshot of what social media users had to say about Mboweni getting vaccinated: