Some say the suit is the uniform of success. Others argue that a man wears a suit only when he is in trouble, like in court. Most men's fashion experts agree, every man should own at least one suit. Former cabinet minister Malusi Gigaba owns more than 200, according to his estranged wife Norma Mngoma. This may seem excessive, but fashion designer Jeff Seleka says he's not surprised. "Those of us in the fashion industry know many people who own more than 100 suits," said the man who designs clothes for royalty and celebrities. "Like women in high-profile positions who own over a 100 dresses as they don't want to repeat for events, there are men who have just as many suits [for the same reason]," he said. Seleka said the suit is timeless. "It is a classic that just evolves." He said men felt confident and sometimes powerful in a suit. But personality and brand expert Thebe Ikalafeng believes the suit does not make the man. "After dominating best-dressed lists in the '90s and 2000s for wearing Western suits, I moved up as my work became more purposeful and aligned my dress code with my affirmed identity with the [African] continent," he told the Sunday Times. "My choices have evolved from celebrating non-African to elevating African creatives across all disciplines. "I don't wear 'suits' any more. I wear Africa - from the Kente regal cloths in Ghana and the Nigeria agbada [robes]," he said. "I don't celebrate materialism or showboating. I never did. It isn't important when everywhere people are trying to earn an honest living and survive." Designer Craig Jacobs "sheepishly" admitted to owning about 20 suits."I do think that is way too much for one person to own. I advise clients that if they work in a formal environment, they can lean towards a different suit for each day of the week in your greys and navy blues. Add a couple of dress suits for parties - and a black suit, preferably a tux for formal occasions. Anything beyond that is sheer indulgence. "As for 200? That's actually obscene, not only because of the environmental harm, but it is really poor taste, especially considering the state of our country." Jacobs, the founder of clothing brand Fundudzi, which does a modern African take on suits, said he once read that former US president Barack Obama wore the same black tuxedo for eight consecutive years. "This proves that to be a global statesman you don't need to be a clotheshorse."