Canada said on Friday it was prepared to discuss an intellectual property rights (IP) waiver for Covid-19 vaccines while also stressing the importance of protecting IP and the integral role industry played in developing the medicines. US President Joe Biden on Wednesday threw his support behind waiving IP rights for Covid-19 vaccines. Any such waiver would have to be negotiated through the World Trade Organization (WTO). "Canada is ready to discuss proposals on a waiver for intellectual property protection, particular to Covid-19 vaccines, under the WTO Agreement on TRIPS," said International Trade Minister Mary Ng, referring to the WTO's agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights." Since the introduction of the IP waiver proposal, Canada has actively worked with partners to identify barriers to vaccine access — many of which are unrelated to IP, such as supply chain constraints," she said in a statement. Biden's proposal angered pharmaceutical companies. Firms working on vaccines have reported sharp revenue and profit gains during the crisis. Ng also stressed that "our government firmly believes in the importance of protecting IP and recognizes the integral role that industry has played in innovating to develop and deliver life-saving Covid-19 vaccines." Reuters CNN's Clarissa Ward reports from Varanasi, India, where makeshift crematoriums are being built to handle the bodies of those who died from Covid-19 and CNN's John Vause speaks with Amy Kazmin. India's Biological E. Ltd will soon start Phase III trials of its Covid-19 vaccine and plans producing 75 million to 80 million doses a month from August, its MD told Reuters on Friday. Britain's decision to advise all under 40-year-olds to take an alternative vaccine to the Oxford/AstraZeneca one will not affect the country's plan to offer a first dose to all adults by the end of July, a senior health official said on Friday. "I can say to you that on current plans, our vaccine supply schedule will support the change offered by the (vaccine advisory group) JCVI without limiting the speed and scale of the vaccine rollout," England's Deputy Chief Medical Officer Jonathan Van-Tam told a news conference. "I do expect that we are still on target to offer a first dose to all adults by the end of July." Reuters Covid-19 upended education over the past year, and educators in the U.S. are aiming to help students who are struggling with anxiety and depression as a result. Drugmakers said President Joe Biden's support for waiving patents of COVID-19 vaccines could disrupt a fragile supply chain and that rich countries should instead share more generously with the developing world. The European Union (EU) on Thursday backed a US proposal to discuss waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, but drug makers and some other governments opposed the idea, saying it would not solve global inoculation shortages. Japan's government is set to extend on Friday a state of emergency in Tokyo and three other areas by about three weeks until the end of May to curb a surge in novel coronavirus cases just months before the start of the Tokyo Olympics. Mpumalanga health MEC Sasekani Manzini says the province will need only 21 days to vaccinate 67% of its people for Covid-19 when the jab arrives. Speaking at the launch of the electronic vaccination system, in Verena near KwaMhlanga on Thursday, Manzini said the province was doing well in managing the pandemic, as it has only 795 active cases. She said the second phase of the vaccine registration, which is targeting people older than 60, was well under way, and her department has also dispatched health workers to vaccinate them in their homes. India, the world’s second most populous country after China, is in the throes of a debilitating Covid-19 pandemic that has not just overwhelmed the country’s poorly resourced health system, but is taking lives in parking bays as it does in hospitals and clinics. On Thursday, India announced a record 412,262 new Covid-19 cases and a record 3,980 daily death toll as it became the second country to reach more than 20 million infections after the US. The death toll has crossed 220,000. The poverty and inequality in India almost mirrors our country. The Indian government’s initial nonchalant approach to the second wave almost mirrors the dismissive tone of our government to what seems to be a certain third wave around the corner.